Bissems

Anatomy: The Bissem are a species of flightless, aquatic birds with round and tapered bodies conducive to swimming. Rather than wings, they have flippers which have evolved to have graspers on the end; unlike most avians, they have solid bones rather than hollow ones. Their orange feet are webbed structures with claws, evolved to help ensnare fish before the development of lures. Arctic lines waddle on ice to avoid slipping; this walking motion is also helpful for swimming and conserving energy. They can walk long distances, due to their ancestors’ migration to breeding grounds.

A Bissem’s coloration consists of white patches on their plump bellies, while their faces and backs are a dingy tan. This helps blend in with the discolored orange oceans that are often polluted by native algae. Plant life on Ivrana is yellow-orange, due to natural carotenoids offering sunlight-protection. The Bissems have a gland in their tail that naturally produces a waterproof oil, in order to survive frigid arctic waters and prevent water from building up in feathers; it’s spread during preening. This oil also serves as a natural source of fuel for their machinery.

Bissems evolved with a brood pouch to stand on eggs and keep them incubated in subzero temperatures, though this is no longer necessary with modern technology. Some traditionalists, who refuse the advance of technology and forsake comforts, still hatch their eggs this way.

Diet: Piscivorous (Carnivore that primarily eats fish)

Blood color: Red

Homeworld: Ivrana

Population: 7 billion

Habitat, Temperament, and Evolution: Bissems can withstand a vast array of habitats, ranging from arctic to sweltering tropical temperatures; however, they have evolved into multiple different subspecies to accommodate these differences. Most of the derogatory racial terms are climate-based or attacking various physical features. The equatorial species (the Vritala) have evolved to have a smaller size than other Bissems, in order to lose heat more quickly; they also are most active during the nighttime, and have less blubber. By comparison, the arctic species (the Selmer) have more blubber. The temperate species (the Tseia) are more nomadic, and are in the middle feature-wise.

The Selmer see the Vritala as antisocial and unfriendly due to their significantly more social behavior. The ancient Selmer had to huddle together to conserve warmth, and sleep in huddles; their behavior is much more group-oriented. However, both parties look down on the migratory Tseia as uncivilized and shifty; it doesn’t help that the Tseia are the most aggressive, and are blamed for starting the Global War.

The Vritala originally survived in volcanic caves and rock crevasses, while the Tseia used to build nests and burrows on sandy beaches and dunes. Selmer, meanwhile lived on unforgiving ice shelves.

One of the quirks about Bissems are the varying and unique ways they sleep. Some like to sleep in floatbeds, just like how their ancestors snoozed atop the waves (Doctors advocate for this to mitigate spinal compression). Some sleep in tightboxes, which are small, almost coffin-line chambers where they can sleep standing up—while secure and supported. Others sleep lying down belly-first on more familiar “softbeds” (similar to ours), or “smoothbeds” which are designed to replicate the feel of lying on ice or rocks.

Litter size: Bissems lay two eggs at a time, with the exception of the Selmer, who lay one. Eggs take around two months to hatch.

Continents: There are six continents. 

Leilut [translation ‘sunstrip’] is a thin, long continent that conveniently wraps near much of the equator in what’s considered the western hemisphere.

Lassia in the Northwest hemisphere is hot and rocky continent, for the most part, but it also has the highest elevation of anywhere on Ivrana. Lassmin has encouraged immigration, and has a stated goal of unifying the goals of all Bissems.

Alsh is a sandy landmass above the South Pole in the eastern hemisphere, with temperate regions on the coastal areas and several large “dune” areas.

Nelmin [translation ‘lostland’] is a chilly island and surrounding archipelago located in the Northeast hemisphere that has had disputed claims between the Vritala and the Selmer going back centuries to colonial times, when both started sailing the full globe. The Tseia’s sudden claim and invasion launched the Global War. It has been uninhabited since the Nel Armistice.

Ilmin [translation ‘poleland’] is the South Pole of Ivrana.

Ilmer [translation ‘poleice’] is the North Pole of Ivrana, and has a massive iceberg that makes the ice too thick to have the ocean. It was colonized by the Selmer in recent times to spread their presence beyond Ilmin, and also have greater options in the event of a war.

Main Factions: 

Nation Name [Primary Species], Continent
The Confederation of Vrital [Vritala], Leilut
Lassmin [Mostly Vritala], Lassia
Tseia Nomads [Tseia], Alsh
Merlei Huddledom [Selmer], Ilmin and Ilmer

Major Historical Events: 

Bissems use the same calendar system, which goes back to [Fishing Invent]. A day on Ivrana is 23.5 human hours and the orbital period is 371 Ivranan days.

433 FI - First well recorded crosscontinental empire, the Tresk, sail from Leilut to Ilmin: considered the beginning of resentment between Selmer and Vritala.

516 FI - The first attempt to invade Alsh backfires after the Tseia nomads burn the Tresk navy. This failure cost the Empire fortunes, and is linked to the collapse of the Tresk empire. Numerous powers have attempted to invade Alsh, but all were rebuffed; it’s cursed.

905 FI - The Merlei Huddledom’s first king is crowned, during their iron age. The Selmer’s ancient roots for their government is a reason their culture is rooted in tradition.

1167 FI - With the Huddledom seeking expansion, the Selmer attempt to invade Alsh. This goes as horrifically as the Tresk’s attempts. Tseia legends speak about a strange pedaled device that could stab ships from underneath. Veracity is tough to gauge, since the Selmer destroyed all records of this event due to the queen’s fury.

2514 FI - The Vritala’s lords wish to expand their power and gain more lands, and set up a colony on Lassia directly to the north; they start by assimilating the locals, societally and genetically. 

2518 FI - Colonial boom, after the Selmer learn of the Vritala’s plans to head northward. The Selmer priests see it as their imperative to stop the “dangerous” Vrital Fiefdom from spreading. Both party’s careless landing completely wipes out Nelmin’s native, fourth species through pillaging. The first of many wars, The Landing War, lasts for over a decade between Selmer and the Vritala.

2690 FI - Revolt spreads within Preening Clubs on Leilut. The lords’ regime is overthrown, and the Vrital Fiefdom becomes the Confederation of Vrital. The Lei Compact is signed, which is one of the first documents of Bissem rights and less authoritarian rule. It will become a model for the Lassmin founding documents centuries later.

2900 FI - The first car is invented by the Selmer, designed with light-pressure tracks to slide over ice.

2916 FI - The first plane is invented. Radio is invented in the same year.

2987 FI - After massive interest on Leilut in a space program, to show Vritala superiority to Selmer “loudbeaks”, the Tseia pull off a surprise launch; successfully becoming the first Bissems to orbit Ivrana. The Huddledom and Confederation both write space off as a stupid endeavor, to downplay the nomads’ upstaging, and scale back focus on space.

2999 FI - A young philosopher named Lass writes a paper called “A Better Future.” It calls for Bissems to search for a collective future, while prioritizing individual rights; it also sows the idea of a new, fully democratic government on Lassia.

3010 FI  - The first computer is invented by a Bissem mathematician.

3043 FI - The Global War begins. The Selmer and the Vritala clash over Nelmin yet again, after a drunk Huddledom guard assaults a Confederation settlement. The Tseia had traditionally kept to themselves, only going berserk against Alsh’s invaders and popping up with surprising technology at odd intervals. However, the Nomads launched a coordinated offensive on both parties’ civilian settlements, and claimed that they were the Bissems who deserved Nelmin—starting a vicious fight.

3044 FI - The Confederation of Vrital grants Lassmin official independence, as they need allies against the Selmer and Tseia, rather than to put down revolts at home. Lassmin proves rather unhelpful and disinterested in fighting.

3046 FI - The internet is invented amid the war. Civilian use wouldn’t be rolled out until after the Nel Armistice.

3051 FI - With millions of Bissems dead, the Nel Armistice is signed—renaming the continent and preventing any Bissem settlement on Nelmin for a hundred years. Current inhabitants relocate to powers’ original continents.

3068 FI - Lassmin had somehow managed to acquire positive relations with all three powers, but then begin their immigration push. The Huddledom is furious at the idea of Selmer leaving to live with Vritala.

3072 FI - Lassmin begins a frenzied launch of space rockets, after decades of disinterest from Bissems. They also launch probes to survey their solar system, and begin an initiative to contact extraterrestrial intelligence.

3096 FI - First Contact

Religions:

There are three primary faiths, with the largest being the proselytizing Hirsem faith. The Hirsem religion believes that a deity called Hirs resides beneath the ocean (some Bissems deny the idea of Ivrana having a core, as modern science believes, while others say that the core is what was meant by beneath the ocean). They try not to resist the “waves” of their god’s will in this life, and believe that if they succeed, they will join Hirs beneath the ocean in the afterlife. 

A religion called the Flighters believes Bissems don’t have flight, like other birds on Ivrana, because they were struck down to the ocean by a harsh deity called Kail. A spiteful faith, some of these individuals joined the Lassian space program to “defy” Kail and reach the stars. There’s a subset of cultists who worship Kail and try to sabotage any aviation, believing Bissems unworthy.

The last large faith is the Dreamers, who believe that Bissems are a divine consciousness who created the universe as a side effect of their emotional capacity. The Dreamers wish to convince all Bissems to “wake up”, in essence ending the “hallucinated” universe, and waking up in a higher reality.

Languages:

While the Tseia Nomads once had hundreds of languages, most died out in favor of the five tongues actively circulating that share the Tsei script.

The Confederation of Vrital speaks Vrital, while Lassmin speaks a simplified version of Vrital called Vrit. It’s meant to be easier for foreigners to learn.

The Selmer has three dialects of their so-called Huddle Tongue, with the Ilmin and Ilmer versions having shifted apart. The third version is called ancient, and is mainly used by scholars—the language has changed sharply since the origin of the Merlei Huddledom millennia ago.

City Layouts:

While the cities vary from climate to climate, a shared unique feature is that pedestrian options are sideswims instead of sidewalks. These stretches of water allow Bissems to travel quicker, since they flourish in water rather than on land. Selmer dwellings tend to be closer and more dense, on their artificial, permanent ice shelves, than Vritala or Tseia cities.

Solar System:

The six planets of the solar system (including Ivrana) are named after Tresk deities from their obsolete pantheon. There is an asteroid belt past Ivrana, separating the inner rocky planets from the three gas giants.

Inner planets: Celle, Trawn, Ivrana
Outer planets: Tremna, Eskiss, Malrem
