<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Chapter 78</title>
    <link href="../Styles/epl.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Chapter 78 <br /><span class="subt">Memory transcription subject:</span> </h1>
    <h2><span class="subt1">Slanek,</span>  <br />
        <span class="subt2">Venlil Space Corps</span>
    </h2>
    <h3>Date [standardized human time]:<br /> November 29, 2136</h3>

    <p>The extermination office featured a modest array of cubicles, past the lobby. There were more employment opportunities than hunting predators. Call centers had to be operational around the clock, and another set of pencil-pushers checked web reports. Other workers researched infestations, identifying potential culprits and their method of survival. These briefings prepared the officers for a job's challenges.</p>

    <p>The humans peered around the entrance, before a brave few slid into a cubicle. No gunfire was unleashed at our appearance, so the rest of us took positions. Marcel produced a pocket-sized drone, and the device silently soared into the air. It glided over rows of cubicles, searching for any heat signatures.</p>

    <p>The miniature robot stopped near a window, and zoomed in on two Tilfish. The predators crept forward, with the same silence their ancestors used to hunt creatures twice their size. Dino mimicked their focus, as its handler whispered something to it. The dog seated itself, and I took my opportunity to distance myself. The gun felt light as a feather in my grip; it stayed pointed right at the hiding spot.</p>

    <p>Marcel poked his gun over the cubicle wall, and his comrades also shoved scopes at the Tilfish. Their mandibles clicked with terror, surprised by the primates' stealth. They bent their heads in a gesture of submission. Large predators shouldn't be able to approach without audible cues, yet humans could suppress their footsteps so well.</p>

    <p>"Please don't shoot us!" an insectoid clicked. "We're just IT workers...we surrender!"</p>

    <p>Marcel jerked his gun skyward. "Stand up. Walk toward the window."</p>

    <p>The Tilfish scuttled back, though their compound eyes lingered on the predators. My human shouted demands to turn around, but the enemy hesitated to comply. Something was odd about their posture, and I couldn't chalk it up to fear. Their appendages seemed folded to conceal an object.</p>

    <p>Marcel approached to search the workers; his hazel eyes were narrowed to slits. The Tilfish's thoraxes twitched, poised to strike out. Without any consideration, I lunged at one of them. The insect I tackled bucked under my grip, and kicked its cohort in the process. I clung on for dear life, reaching for whatever was in its clutches.</p>

    <p>The humans noticed the downed one was wielding a gun; that "IT worker" was scrambling to right himself. Multiple bullets incised the hostile's exoskeleton, before he could enact his plans. Marcel pointed his firearm at the one I was riding, but he couldn't get a clean shot. The Tilfish had latched on to my forepaw, which prevented me from dismounting.</p>

    <p>I screeched, as the Tilfish slammed me against the wall. Adrenaline surged through my veins like a drug. My free arm shot toward his lens-like eyes, and I sank tiny claws into the smooth flesh. He howled in pain, loosening his grip on my other paw. My body crashed to the floor with a thud, knocking the wind from my lungs.</p>

    <p>The predators pumped the Tilfish full of lead, before he could try anything else. Some blood splattered onto my fur, painting yellow splotches across my chest. Every muscle in my body quivered, as horror washed over me. I crawled back toward the humans, and struggled to my feet. Several primates helped wipe the blood off, checking me for injuries.</p>

    <p>"Slanek, for the love of God, why did you not shoot those Tilfish?" Marcel grunted.</p>

    <p>I straightened my head fur. "W-well. I saw them reaching for a weapon."</p>

    <p>"I understand that. My question stands."</p>

    <p>"I...don't know. L-let's get moving."</p>

    <p>Terran soldiers swept the room, verifying that other Tilfish hadn't stowed away. We progressed to an interior stairwell, which led to the upper floor. The armory was tucked by the landing, but it had been emptied of guns and flamethrowers. The exterminators found a use for every weapon in their possession.</p>

    <p>I hugged the wall alongside Marcel, using his presence to ground me. Every instinct suggested to hyperventilate, and dwell on the bloodshed I'd kickstarted. But giving into those thoughts wouldn't facilitate my survival; it would hinder the UN's mission too. These Tilfish needed to die, because they were a threat to Earth. There was nothing else to consider.</p>

    <p>These rebels were the strongest advocates for joining that genocidal raid, I imagine. They're responsible for billions dead.</p>

    <p>The predators were hesitant to climb the stairwell. There had been dozens of life signatures in this building, so the bulk were waiting on the top floor. Per the tactics UN training drilled into me, this was a chokepoint. It was advantageous to defenders, and forced assailants to cover multiple angles. Grenades weren't a viable option, with their tendency to roll back on us.</p>

    <p>"Is there another way up?" I whispered.</p>

    <p>Marcel shrugged. "We could just blow this place to kingdom come, but the brass doesn't want collateral. There's no telling if there's hostages 'til we sweep the premises."</p>

    <p>"I'm surprised you didn't suggest dropping out of the sky. That is the human way, as I recall."</p>

    <p>"Intel suggests this faction has surface-to-air capabilities. Attaining a ladder is possible, but the roof is likely booby-trapped anyways. These fellas seem to want us to come to them."</p>

    <p>"Why?"</p>

    <p>"I don't know. They're basically a cult, and they're cornered. They could be planning to take us down with them."</p>

    <p>My human turned his gun skyward, and inched back-first toward the stairs. He popped off several shots from a sharp angle, which connected with one Tilfish. Judging by the alarmed chatter, there were six or seven defenders perched above us. The insects leaned over the railing, and rained fire on the redhead.</p>

    <p>Tension crossed Marcel's scarred face, as he ducked back under the alcove. The humans waited for the enemy to deplete ammunition, knowing they weren't conservative in its usage. My friend peeked back out, and was joined by a pair of comrades. The trio offered suppressive fire, as the Terran troops hustled up the stairs.</p>

    <p>I swallowed my nerves, which reminded me what an easy target I was. If these humans could bear the risk, so could I; this was about trusting their plan. My feet sprinted up two stairs at a time, and I joined our squad mid-way up. We had a better line of sight from this angle, which allowed us to bombard the Tilfish.</p>

    <p>One human dropped beside me, and another released a strained yelp. This charge was a strategical blunder, but it was the lesser evil of our options. We were hoping to scale the incline as quickly as possible. Though I was too frazzled to aim, I got off several blind shots. Whether or not my bullets contributed, the exterminators were gunned down in seconds.</p>

    <p>Panting heavily, I labored up the rest of the stairs. The predators tended to our wounded, lugging both to the top. One's binocular eyes were glassy, suggesting they were already gone. My eyes shot back to Marcel, who was the first to engage the Tilfish. Relief clamped at my heart, when I saw him hobbling up behind me. His brazenness could've gotten him killed!</p>

    <p>Marcel tested the door. "Easy now. We're going to sustain losses, Slanek. We can't let that distract us...we all know the risks."</p>

    <p>"I didn't say anything?" I squeaked.</p>

    <p>"You didn't have to. You wear your emotions all over your face."</p>

    <p>I rubbed my temples, trying to fight off a nagging headache. Dino bounded up the stairs, and began sniffing at my legs. The dog's presence was the last straw, in a situation that was stressful already. Why couldn't the damn beast leave me alone? Wasn't it enough that I was in imminent danger from bullets?</p>

    <p>The humans departed the stairwell onto the second floor, and a slew of gunfire welcomed them. I bolted away from Dino; getting shot was preferrable to his creepy drooling. This appeared to be some sort of break room, with lounge stools, tables, and a mini-kitchen in the area. The Tilfish had condensed the lounge chairs into fortifications, and upturned tables for cover too.</p>

    <p>Our position was a barren bottleneck, which was by design. Glass shattered to my left, as the window was nailed by errant bullets. Shards glinted on the floor, and reflected the sunlight pouring in. I suddenly wished I had goofy paw coverings, like the humans. My feet weren't fleshy like theirs, but pads wouldn't stop me from impaling myself.</p>

    <p>Guess the only place to hide is by the cabinets to my right. Already lots of humans cramming in there though; need somewhere less crowded.</p>

    <p>Keeping as far away from the broken window as possible, I scampered across to the opposite end of the room. Bullets whizzed past my head, and took out several humans who tailed me. A handful of us reached the other side, where an arch opened up into a parallel corridor. Further down, there were a set of doors marked with a "Biohazard" symbol. I assumed that was where prey remains, and predator experimentation were housed.</p>

    <p>Bootsteps closed in on my position, rough and unsteady. Marcel dived through the archway, flashing his teeth at me. He huddled against the wall, and predator chemicals caused his eyes to dilate. The vegetarian sucked in several breaths, while Tilfish gunfire peppered the plaster around us. I risked a brief glance at my paw pads, which seemed clear of glass.</p>

    <p>UN soldiers retreated to the stairwell, as bullets decimated their position. My side advance was secure against a support wall, for now, but the firefight had ground to an impasse. The Tilfish exterminators needed to be flushed from their shelter, before we incurred more losses.</p>

    <p>I propped my gun up against my chest. "Those bastards think they can hunker down. What about grenades now?"</p>

    <p>"I thought you'd never ask," the Terran chuckled.</p>

    <p>Several soldiers readied grenades, calculating the perfect moment to strike. Human predation was methodical, a far cry from mindless chasing. Their discipline kept their units functioning as well-oiled machines. If I was opposing them, efficiency would be more frightening than an animalistic frenzy. Terrans were much less likely to make mistakes than the Arxur.</p>

    <p>I was grateful to be on their team. If first contact had gone differently, the Venlil would have been the first ones fighting them. We would've never had the exchange program, which meant I'd still see humans as monsters. What fate would befall Earth, had Sovlin gotten his mitts on the Odyssey astronauts? My friend would be dead too, and...I might've helped kill him.</p>

    <p>I shook my head, not wanting to think about dreadful causalities. The predators clattered explosives across the floor, which arrived at the Tilfish fortifications. Marcel wouldn't let me carry grenades, since my throwing ability was negligible. Human arm torsion was effortless, in contrast; hunting with spears forced their ancestors to evolve precision.</p>

    <p>Enemy screams followed the grenades, as the detonations tore any shelter apart. This time, I understood that humans would capitalize on the chaos. My legs propelled me back into the room, forsaking the corridor's refuge. A few Tilfish retained their guns, but most hostiles languished on the floor. Buttery blood washed across the tile, with spatter reaching up onto the walls.</p>

    <p>The Terrans strode up to the barricades; Dino darted into the heart of the action as well. The dog subdued any Tilfish who were rising, while the humans' picked off writhing targets. UN soldiers admired the heap of bug corpses, poking a few to ensure they were dead. Our ranks sustained some damage in the fray, but we got the better end of the bargain.</p>

    <p>Marcel shuffled into the corridor. "So, that door we saw. I've learned the Federation warning symbols, and the last thing we need is them springing some 'cure' on us. Are they testing bioweapons here?"</p>

    <p>"Highly unlikely. Consider where we are. It's marked biohazard because of predator contamination. You are predator contamination, lots of it, so I doubt you care."</p>

    <p>"You never know, Slanek. Contact with some animal's saliva might turn me into a superpredator, with claws and horns."</p>

    <p>"I'd be more worried about that with Dino than you. You ready to end this?"</p>

    <p>The redhead nodded. I mulled over how their teasing behavior had rubbed off on me; sarcasm had never featured in my lexicon so regularly. It did seem like a healthy way of expressing stress, especially in extreme situations. Bantering with my predator distracted me from the nauseating fear.</p>

    <p>Upon closer inspection, the biohazard door was left ajar. Marcel nudged it with his foot, eliciting a mournful creak. The human made gagging noises, and tugged his shirt over his nose. I wasn't sure what his reaction pertained to, given my lack of smell. Was the air laced with some poison?</p>

    <p>"Bleh! That acrid smell..." Marcel coughed.</p>

    <p>My gaze darted to the floor, and the source of his discomfort revealed itself. A thin coating of brownish liquid amassed, like a wading pool. The gasoline was discernible upon entry, even with blinders on. Did the exterminators think humans would trample through a blaze zone? Most sapients avoided burning alive where possible.</p>

    <p>I swished my tail with disgust. "Petrol. There must be a few Tilfish camped inside, waiting to set it off."</p>

    <p>"I don't have time for this. Playing timberwood's not on my agenda." The human's teeth protruded with malevolence, as he acquired a match. "How about a little role reversal? Surprise, fuckers!"</p>

    <p>After lighting the object in his hand, Marcel dropped the spark into the gasoline rim. Orange fire snaked across the liquid, and leapt onto any secondary fuel: walls, furniture, and Tilfish alike. My human turned his back on the inferno, and strolled back to the stairwell. While the exterminators achieved their self-immolation plan, we needed to double-time it out of here.</p>

    <p>The UN troops jogged past the break room's body trail, and skipped down the stairwell. Their longer legs allowed them to retrace their steps quickly. I lagged behind them a bit, but my friend circled back for me. Marcel scooped me up in strong arms, ignoring his own exhaustion. The human was a good herdmate; he always looked out for my welfare.</p>

    <p>I know he'd never leave me behind, come stampede or high water.</p>

    <p>It was a quick journey, cuddling against his muscular form. We hustled past the cubicles and the lobby, before bursting into fresh air. The blaze had gained intensity, as it battered the upper windows. I spotted Tilfish silhouettes thrashing about, enveloped by smoke and debris. Perhaps it was unwise that the professionals made their workshop flammable by design.</p>

    <p>"Guard each exit," Marcel barked. "Those exterminators'll either burn alive, or they'll try to evacuate. Unless they come out surrendering, shoot any you see."</p>

    <p>Dino's quadrupedal form was visible among our ranks. The dog strayed from its handler, and opted to harass me again. In a rare moment of bravery, I shoved its snout away. It offered a pitiful whine, before curling up at my feet nonetheless. Its brown eyes never left me, as it thumped its tail a single time.</p>

    <p>Why wouldn't it leave me alone? It was for Marcel's sake that I didn't chase it off with my gun. I hated that mutt, just as much as the humans adored it. Once we cleared the neighborhoods of rogue patrols, this mission would be complete. I couldn't wait to achieve victory, so I could get myself far away from the feral predator.</p>
    <p class="separador">⋯ ✧ ⋯ ✧ ⋯</p>
</body>
</html>