The Nature of Predators 170


---

Memory transcription subject: Chief Hunter Isif, Arxur Rebellion Command

Date [standardized human time]: March 25, 2137

Landing on Liberty’s Bastion, I could see the fruits of humanity’s ventures into the universe. The colonists, who’d been evacuated under threat of the Mileau shadow fleet “curing” them, had returned to the frontier. Secretary-General Zhao was making his first in-person visit to the colony, and agreed to meet me here: a shorter journey than traveling to Earth. The dignitary knew I’d like to pay a visit to Felra, who was now a permanent resident of the settlement. Her last message had been an irritating remark about how she thought I’d look cute in a sequined hat, so she’d bought one for next time we met. Dreadful. I would have to face that insufferable idea; however, the purpose of my visit was to brief Zhao on the rebellion’s progress, and inquire about the status of the Battle of Aafa.

The reality was that we didn’t have ships to lose to contribute to a direct assault on the Kolshian homeworld; our tactics had always been guerilla warfare, through and through. There was nothing glamorous in breaking up supply lines and utilizing hit-and-run attacks against ship contingents, but it was the surest play for our purpose. If our rebellion broke apart, that would mean the Arxur had no optimistic future in the galaxy—neither Giznel nor Ilthiss would detach themselves from cruelty. I couldn’t believe what UN intelligence had told me about the Dominion fighting alongside the shadow fleet.

I never imagined they’d so openly show their mutual interest in continuing the war. Giznel must be desperate to stop humanity from coming for Wriss now, regardless of how Earth has “refrained” from openly waging war against them.

The majority of the Dominion ships being at the Kolshian homeworld meant that each sector was left with sparse defenses. We couldn’t resist targeting ship counts in the meager thousands, depriving Betterment of much-needed numbers…assuming the band at Aafa fell. The copious spacecraft kept in Wriss’ central sector was halved; my rebellion hadn’t gunned for them first, since my next plan was to trumpet a certain video through open channels. Command vessels at Aafa were jamming comms to prevent the footage of Giznel and Nikonus’ collusion from being passed along, but the brass weren’t back babysitting the leftovers. That strategy had flipped several Arxur vessels that I’d been able to contact in the external sectors.

Lisa breathed in the fresh air, smiling. “This is a lovely planet. Regardless of what happens at Aafa…maybe more so, if we win, I bet humanity is going to spread out. Like them. I think this colony has a lot of potential, to be the start of something new.”

“It would also be the perfect world to hide secret experiments,” Olek challenged, with dramatic arm motions. “Much farther away from Earth than the three colonies that popped up in our territory. We could work on bioweapons and no one would ever know!”

“Olek, I’ve never met anyone as paranoid as you. You need medication.”

“I do not! It’s not paranoid when I’m right. It’d be easier if I was wrong, but other people just miss these things!”

Though our posse of three (with Kaisal staying behind to avoid offending local leadership) was standing just in front of our landing ramp, the settlement looked ramshackle and unimpressive. There were two large buildings that I could scan with my visual translators, with one labeled a communal dormitory and the other as town hall. The sole independent constructions were hab modules in front of farming fields, where Earth crops had been planted. There was little in the way of shops, apart from market stalls for food and general goods. The Mazics were constructing an embassy with proper elegance, but that was still a work-in-progress.

I thought I recalled some tidbit from Felra about the Terrans opening a new seed vault on Liberty’s Bastion. That was the closest thing to a government mission on this world. There was likely a lab-grown meat factory tucked away somewhere, far from any Mazic eyes; I guess that was hidden, since it might qualify as a “bioweapon” by the Federation’s standards. Olek needed a reality check on his fantastical conspiracies, especially after the jaw-dropping revelations of late had encouraged his outlandish theories. The glasses-wearing human was talking about mind-reading technology just last week—it couldn’t get more detached from the realm of probability.

I flared my nostrils. “Silence! The likeliest secret on this colony is the fact that an Arxur is landing, within Mazic territory, yes? I recall they weren’t pleased to see me at the Summit, so it’s bold to invite me here.”

“It’s our colony.” Lisa shrugged, bringing her arms closer to her chest as the chilly breeze nipped at her. “We can do what we want, though I don’t imagine Zhao wants to step on any toes. This planet is perfect for habitation, and we wouldn’t want the Mazics rethinking their gift. I wouldn’t mind settling down in a place like this.”

“I thought you wanted to open a coffee shop, and bring people together.”

“That’s why there’s opportunity here. Earth will pour tons of time and resources into building this place up. There’s no conveniences or entertainment spots here yet, so the market isn’t saturated like it is at home. Places like this could become something more than rushed attempts to get humans out of Sol.”

“I agree,” Zhao chimed in, having approached quietly from the side. “There were limitations from my target date of having residents here, and the United Nations’ three other Bastion colonies, by 2136’s end. In peacetime, we’ll have higher standards for new construction. If all goes well, we’re the de facto power in the galaxy—and we need to look the part. It's wonderful that you could make it out here, Isif.”

I turned my maw to face the human. “Secretary-General. I eagerly anticipate an update on the Battle of Aafa. But first, may I inquire how you’re hiding my visit from the Mazics?”

“I’m not. We don’t plan to build our alliance on lies and secrecy, and foster mistrust within the Sapient Coalition. President Cupo knows who you are, and I’ve told him that we’re coordinating our war efforts with a rebellion leader in the area. He doesn’t approve but won’t interfere.”

“Very well. I assume you wish to speak of the war efforts. I’d like to discuss further where the Arxur stand after this is over, because I believe my recent efforts made Giznel’s capitulation likely. All I need is an update on Aafa.”

“I’ll let you begin with a summary of what the rebellion has been up to, and then I’ll bring you up to speed on the battle. Don’t worry, I’ll point you to the starship docking port to find Felra. We don’t get much traffic here, but she fits in well as an inspector.”

“Felra is a strange Dossur, but I am grateful for that annoying rodent’s safety, Míngzé. How much do you already know about our plans from Jones and her informant?”

Lisa huffed, as I pointed at her with my tail. “I am not Jones’ informant!”

“You are always in touch with her, and promised to ‘handle her’ like you have some inside road? She always seems to know my plans. It doesn’t take a genius to figure out how that might occur. I am not the Federation.”

Olek narrowed his eyes. “You know, that makes a lot of sense! No wonder you shoot down my conspiracies; you’re one of them!”

“Coming from the guy who instantly believed Isif was a UN spy,” Lisa Reynolds shot back.

“And he was a spy for us!”

Secretary-General Zhao’s eyebrows shot upward, as though he were conceding the point to Oleksiy. “I have no idea if Reynolds works for Jones, though I wouldn’t put it past her—and I know she wouldn’t tell me. Old habits die hard. Still, I’m grateful that you three seem to have bonded. Now, forgive my impatience, but I’d like to get back to keeping tabs on Aafa as soon as we’re done. Can you fill me in on your recent whereabouts?”

The entire goal of my actions had been to bring as many Arxur to my side as possible; I wanted to have enough people left to cobble together a society. Turning Chief Hunter Ilthiss had hopefully been an asset to humanity’s cause, but with nothing left to lose, I’d been determined to convert more Dominion personnel. From the secondhand information Jones had given me, I knew that the command ships at Aafa were blocking the Terrans from passing along Betterment’s treason. It was my belief that we’d achieved a workaround, though the fallout remained to be seen.

I have no idea how humanity is holding up against two galactic powers. Any chaos or doubt within Arxur ranks could aid their mission.

“My people approached the vessels left behind in each sector, and forwarded the video of Giznel and Nikonus colluding. After the viewing of this footage, they were asked to join my side; a large percentage have committed forces to the rebellion, which takes Wriss’ ship count down a notch further. We also have deigned to launch attacks against any who didn’t join our side. This should help humanity to gather a Dominion surrender, yes?” I asked.

The Secretary-General grimaced. “I gave you my word that we’ll help your cause, once Aafa is dealt with, and I’ll follow through. The less ships they have, the better. I don’t imagine you find fault in having more ships at your disposal either. However, I confess it would be of more immediate use to connect with the Arxur fighting us at this moment.”

“You’re in luck. The Dominion does not have command ships to jam signals out here, since they are at Aafa. However, any fleet needs to communicate amongst itself. Specific channels are open so Chief Hunters can stay in touch with their sector, and be apprised of any attacks back here. If it comes from approved vessels and is framed as a status report, leadership has no reason not to pass it along. I have given pointers that should help some Arxur abetting the Kolshians see the truth…very soon.”

Olek flashed his teeth. “Isif is saying that the video will be playing mid-battle. We should have at least some Dominion assets turning to our side, and throwing a wrench in the Kolshians’ alliance.”

“I thought it was wise to pass along the message to each sector in person, so there was no chance the Dominion could catch wind of our intent and block the video. It’s important that they’re blindsided,” Lisa said.

Zhao tapped his chin. “I agree that we don’t want them to get a heads-up. I’ll brief UN Command, and we’ll fill the fleet in once we receive visual confirmation of hijinks. Might I say, excellent work, Isif. Without ever needing to send a warship of your own, you’re responsible for all of the extra help we’ve gotten. From saving Earth to swaying your people, don’t think we don’t know that you’ve done more than anyone for humanity’s cause.”

“Your cause is my cause. Ending the Federation. A better future. No more sapient cattle,” I responded. “Might I ask what you mean by ‘all the help?’ This means Ilthiss has been useful perhaps, yet your reference seems to be corresponding multiple parties?”

“The Duerten Shield have come to our aid too. That’s in no small part thanks to you, risking your people to stop the Kolshians from eradicating Kalqua—when you had nothing to gain. It’s telling that our chances ride on the friends and allies we have struggled so hard to get. We did what was right by ourselves and by the laws of decency, even when it was taxing. Our decisions haven’t been perfect, and there’s been some things we had to do that were unpleasant, but we opened enough eyes to the truth for it to make a difference.”

“You say ‘we’ as if I were a part of the outreach to the leaf-lickers.”

“You were, Isif. I’m proud to call you a friend of the United Nations. While I cannot guarantee what the Sapient Coalition will think about the Arxur, after this is all said and done, I promise I’ll try to do right by you. I’ll try to build a path to reconciliation.”

Lisa chuckled. “That won’t be easy, sir.”

“Believe me, I know. There are so many broken relationships, from centuries of cyclical hatred, that need mending. There are trillions of traumatized people—freed cattle, those grieving worlds that are bombed-out husks, brainwashed citizens with lives rooted in fear, and victims from the literal past. Trying to set the galaxy back on track will be a battle of its own.”

“You’ve come a long way from protecting humanity’s interests above all others,” I remarked.

“We gain nothing from the suffering of other races. Peace, equality, and community are humanity’s interests. It’s the only way Earth will ever be a safe, prosperous member of the Orion neighborhood.”

“You say that as if you believe they can truly accept predators.”

“I do. With time, I think they could even accept the Arxur.”

My nostrils flared, considering whether that could be a possibility. Before everything that had happened in recent months, I wouldn’t have believed it was possible for the prey to forgive what we’d done—and for us to forgive the long ago curse of starvation. That was before I learned that the Federation wasn’t the sole party responsible for our plight; Betterment had been the agent that wiped out our cattle, and encouraged us to seek out a sapient food source. Likewise, the herbivores had learned that the Kolshians were complicit in everything the Arxur did, with the power to stop it at any time. Chief Nikonus wouldn’t have allowed a predator race to be peaceful, and used us as a tool to justify their control.

There were so many things I’d seen on a personal level that gave me hope for the future. Felra had been willing to accept me, even after learning that I was an Arxur; that deranged Dossur tried to get a rise out of me often, and once dabbled in eating Olek’s beef jerky. Governor Tarva had been willing to work with me during the cattle exchange; she’d argued in my favor when the humans imprisoned me, and again at the Summit. There was the fact that the majority of thirty-eight herbivore species voted to let me speak at that Summit…and that the vote to join a human-led venture was still unanimous after Zhao admitted to working with me. There was even the Yotul reaching out after the event, and being pleasant to work with during battle. I’d liked and respected the feisty marsupial I spoke with during the fight for Kalqua.

There’s even that the Mazics didn’t throw a fit, with word that an Arxur Chief Hunter was landing in a predator enclave within their territory. Things have changed.

“I hope so. It seems that we will be on the outside looking in for some time,” I replied.

Zhao tilted his head. “That’s why I’m personally making an effort to keep you in the loop. You’re as much a friend of humanity as anyone in the Sapient Coalition. Just to drive my point home, the risks you’ve taken for us haven’t gone unnoticed. Now, I’m sure you’ve been waiting to hear about the Battle of Aafa.”

“That would be appreciated.”

“In short, we’ve pushed through to Aafa, and the planetary defenses are under the control of our ground troops. It’s my expectation that we’ll know who wins or loses this fight by the end of the day. It’s not like that’s the last leg of the journey, but with the new information you gave us about turning Dominion forces, I’m hopeful that humanity won’t be searching for a new home as of tomorrow. Once the result is locked, I’ll make sure intelligence passes that along to you.”

“The fate of my people is in humanity’s hands. I hope that you will succeed.”

“I hope so too, but there’s nothing else either of us can do. You’ve achieved more than I could’ve hoped for, so take comfort in that and save the worrying for another day. Go enjoy your time with Felra, Siffy. Ask for her at the docking port over there…she should be on call now.”

“I will. Good luck, Zhao. Whatever happens, it’s been an honor to work with you and all of humanity.”

The Terran leader smiled. “Likewise.”

Olek and Lisa tailed behind me, as I padded off in the direction Zhao was pointing. It was a strange world where I could express my feelings, and meet up with an herbivore friend who cared about me against the odds. There was nothing else I could do at this point, to aid the rebellion and the UN fleet’s chances. I hoped that my final contribution, ensuring that Dominion forces by Aafa got wind of Giznel and Nikonus’ scheming, paid dividends; it had to work. How could Arxur not turn on Betterment, hearing how our suffering was their intent…in conjunction with the Federation?

For all intents and purposes, I was assuming the news would cause a significant schism in Arxur ranks. Ilthiss couldn’t be the only one to react to the truth with outrage. With the numbers a bit more in their favor, humanity might be able to eliminate the shadow fleet from Aafa’s orbit. This would be the defining moment, where a verdict would be passed down about whether sapient predators had the right to exist in this galaxy.

---