The Nature of Predators 118
OC
First | Prev | Next

Patreon | Arxur POV of the Cradle | Series wiki | Official subreddit | Discord

---

Memory transcription subject: Chief Hunter Isif, Arxur Rebellion Command

Date [standardized human time]: January 14, 2137

The promise of food was the main selling point for my rebellion. After going hungry for the entirety of their lives, many Arxur troops were willing to heed my call with the promise of never missing a meal again. Betterment failed in that imperative, and merely pointing out the illogical nature of our raids proved that they never intended to deliver. My plan to utilize the Terran-gifted cattle and harvest non-sapients from untouched worlds was alluring.

I also offered sanctuary to defectives and defectors, reaching out through the secretive forums like the one I’d stumbled across before my fateful visit to Shaza’s sector. It didn’t matter which reason they opposed the Arxur Dominion for; checking all the bases was my top priority. There was outreach condemning the consumption of former omnivores, to those who believed races like the Gojids were truly sapient. We offered roles to those who didn’t wish to fight, or sought civilian pursuits.

Like Jones says, just taking manpower away from Giznel and his people helps the war effort. The future of the Arxur shouldn’t be only about soldiers; that’s how we got here.

Lastly, on the internet, I planted the rumor that Betterment starved us intentionally, having kickstarted our suffering to start with, and allowed the people to circulate it. Initial recruitment had been more successful than I imagined; even non-defectives were weary of a lifelong war, and a strategy that was bound to ensure its continuance. 90% of my troops from the original sector, and around 65% of the ones from Shaza’s old sector stayed under my control too.

Gaining allies beyond the UN’s vague promise of future support was key. Rival Chief Hunters had yet to join me, although I wasn’t giving up on that. If we could hang in the fight for long enough to validate our strength, then the self-centered brutes might decide we were worthy of support. They could rule their own sectors, solidifying all the power, without any oversight.

Manufacturing power was critical, since we needed to generate more ships. The humans sent us supplies, weapons, and small craft on the down low, though nothing that would draw attention or prove their involvement. Due to our need to grow our fleet, I encouraged anyone defecting to steal an armed transport. Playing to ego, mutinous captains who convinced some of their crew and brought a full warship were offered rank promotions.

“Hello, Isif.” Lisa Reynolds looked up as I entered the daily briefing room, yawning in harmony with me. The two Terrans had done a decent job guarding me, and keeping me apprised of any intel the UN or my own people scrounged up. Jones must’ve coached them. “The Secretary-General is waiting on a secure line. He says he can offer something you want.”

I lashed my tail with interest, hoping that meant the Terrans were lending military support early. As fun as it would be to keep Earth’s leader waiting, having the aid of the UN establishment would be crucial. I grumbled for her and Olek to set up the call, and decided to push my status update on the rebellion to later in the day. There was also the matter of selecting some Arxur underlings for leadership roles; I would be interviewing a few presumed defectives on their candidacy soon.

It was a busy day, as there seemed to be no shortage of action. I’d selected an Arxur protégé, but he could wait for this call and the subsequent briefing to continue. Felra’s whiskers twitched as she sat at the center of the table, where she could have the “best view in the house.” The Dossur and I spent a lot of time conversing, though I was careful to keep her away from the Arxur general populace.

“What do you think Zhao wants to give you?” the ginger-and-white rodent asked. “A way to contact the Federation? You could make amends on behalf of your sect, and get them as allies.”

A growl rumbled in my throat. “GRR! Harping on that again? That’s what you want, not the humans. They’re realists…except for Olek.”

“Aw, c’mon, let up now! I hear that line from Lisa enough.” Olek hunched over my holopad, a slight smile on his face. “I get it, I shouldn’t have brought up my theories about our grays. It was an honest question.”

“You know what else is an honest question? Why Isif shouldn’t try to reach out to the Federation!” Felra pressed. “He says he’s friends with Tarva already.”

I whipped my snout toward her. “We are not friends, in the slightest. That Venlil just doesn’t want someone else commanding her sector, because I’m a lesser evil and I want change. She knows I partook in, even oversaw, unspeakable things. Would you like me to outline them for you, so you can know too?”

“I…I would. It must’ve been horrible to have to blend in with monsters, or die.”

“Why can’t you just act like a normal Dossur? Scream, cry, cower?”

Felra giggled as an answer, before wandering over to Lisa’s spot. Peacekeeper Reynolds absent-mindedly petted the deranged rodent, who seemed to enjoy the human’s nails pricking her spine. These were my advisors…leaf-licking aliens I lived with every day? Why did I tolerate them?! I marched up to Oleksiy, and hovered over him to encourage him to work faster.

The conspiracy theorist snapped his fingers. “All set. It’s connecting now, so get ready, Isif.”

“Got it. Your technical skills are appreciated.”

“Hell yeah! Us human nerds have game. Best in the biz.”

“Your self-complimenting assures me of your humility. The best do not have to declare they are the best, yes?”

“Don’t have to, but I’m going to anyway. And hey, for what it’s worth…I empathize with losing yourself, trying to blend in somewhere you don’t belong. Venlil Prime was harsh, at first. If I hadn’t met some special people at the right time, I might’ve forgot what I was fighting for. Not the same, but we’re all shaped by our societies and our situations.”

“That’s a long-winded way of saying he gets it,” Lisa chimed in. “From what we’ve seen of you, I think you’re a softie.”

I cast a glare in her direction. “I will rip off one of your limbs if you ever say that again!”

“Yeah, yeah, tough guy. Whatever you say.”

I huffed in irritation, and stared down the camera with a bit more hostility than was needed. Secretary-General Zhao wouldn’t understand my glare, but I couldn’t have the humans calling me weak to my face. Wasn’t “softie” an insult? The leader of the Arxur rebellion was no scrawny runt, unable to enforce his will. That was equally as bad as considering me a monster!

If Zhao is calling to yank my chain, then I’ll show him a real scowl. I need to be tougher with these humans, whether we’re friends or not.

The Secretary-General blinked onto a video projector. “Hello. Thanks for taking my call, Isif; I know you’re busy.”

“Sure. Though I am busy, I can fit in time for Earth.”

“Oh, I’ll keep this short. I don’t want to waste your time. But say, before I get down to the meat of the matter, do you mind filling me in on the latest war developments? Just want to make sure Jones isn’t painting her own narrative.”

Humoring Zhao wasn’t what I planned to do first thing in the morning, but I had to keep him in my corner. Olek and Lisa watched as I started my speech, ready to chip in if needed. There were a lot of moving parts in the war, so summarizing it in concise fashion wouldn’t be easy. However, I didn’t want to squander any excess time rehashing the past.

“Well, I’m sure I’m telling you what you already know,” I began diplomatically. “But we ceded a lot of our immobile infrastructure to the Dominion, since it’s an easy target. We stay hidden and on the move, only surfacing to disrupt Arxur operations. Jones has been directing some rebels via internet channels, to pull some shenanigans from within Wriss’ borders.”

Zhao nodded. “Like we saw with what you’ve done, government sleeper agents are quite effective. How are you and your people faring against Betterment? I know Giznel is after your head.”

“They’ve sent multiple search parties after us, while seeming to avoid human space. They do not wish to step on your toes, if I’m not mistaken? Anyhow, there have been, hrr, three-odd forays into my sectors this week. We do not intend to challenge them until the right opportunity presents itself.”

“Excellent. And how are Bondarenko and Reynolds? Can they confirm to me that everything is good with their supplies and their treatment?”

Despite the fact that I had received non-sapient cattle post-Sillis, humans were distrustful of any Arxur-sourced meat. I would not dupe my guards, who were on cordial terms with me, into eating sapient herbivore flesh. However, that wasn’t a risk the United Nations or the duo themselves were willing to take. I understood on a logical level that the propaganda, should Terrans be documented enjoying a cut of Venlil filet, would be devastating.

Therefore, Olek and Lisa maintained their own food supply, and I made no efforts to take it away. My concern on that issue was more for my internet friend. Felra couldn’t stomach watching us eat their lab-grown cuts or my animal-sourced meals, as we learned the hard way. The Dossur had tried, but there were some responses she couldn’t manage. I was impressed with how quickly she’d grasped the concept of an obligate carnivore, for a Federation creature.

“Everything is fine, sir. We are safe and well, and missing Earth,” Lisa said.

Zhao pursed his lips. “Glad to hear it. We’ll leave another shipment in the same spot as always. Now, I’ll cut to the chase, Isif; I called to offer you a gift. I only wanted to make sure your insurgency would last more than a few weeks, and that you wouldn’t become a problematic faction in your own right.”

“Your forces are ready to join us?” I queried.

“Not yet. I’m forwarding some blueprints over this link which I think you will find useful. There’s clear instructions for any scientists you have.”

My eyes narrowed, before I accepted the file transfer after a slight hesitation. I was certain that if the humans wanted to worm malware onto my system, they already had; I wouldn’t even realize, with their sneakiness. The documents that popped onto my screen were explanations of how to create lab-grown meat. This was the ticket to growing substantial food, without needing any livestock!

I can’t believe he’s just giving this to me. Doesn’t he hate us?

“I’m giving this to you free, as a thank you for all you’ve done for Earth,” the Secretary-General continued. “Jones’ one-sided ploys weren’t fair to you. She told you that I would treat you like a pawn, but she accused me of what she herself is doing. That won’t be my policy in our dealings. The United Nations is true to our friends, period.”

Emotion swelled in my chest, realizing the implications this could have for starving billions. “Thank you, Mr. Secretary-General. I do appreciate it deeply. Your human innovation will be put to good use.”

“I have full faith in you, Isif. We’re all rooting for you here. I’ll let you go, but I wish you well in the coming days.”

“You as well. Tear the Federation a new one.”

The Secretary-General flashed his teeth. “Oh, we’re working on it.”

Zhao clicked off the call, and my pupils flickered over to the human guards. In the short duration that I had been chatting about lab-grown meat, Felra had rolled onto her back. Lisa was tickling the Dossur’s stomach, which earned squeals from the rodent. I hissed in disgust, hoping that the Secretary-General hadn’t heard this nonsense. I’d been so focused, that I was oblivious to anything happening in the background.

“Make yourselves presentable! Don’t make me regret not letting the Kolshians have you, Felra,” I snarled.

The Dossur flipped back to her paws. “That decision is made, and now you have to live with it. You…could try petting me too?”

“NO! Get that first Arxur grunt, now, Lisa, and sit away from Felra.”

As the petting-happy primate darted off, Olek risked a glance at me. “What are we looking for? Do you want our advice?”

“If it’s solicited. We’re going to fill out my advisors; we need people who must be loyal to me, might be willing to tolerate the hunting-challenged species, and can also be influential. That’s why I asked Felra to be here. How they react to her is a good indicator if they’ll try to eat every herbivore they see.”

The Dossur shivered. “I d-don’t like this.”

“Come here, Felra. I won’t let them get anywhere near you.”

Lisa returned, guiding a scrawny Arxur with an unimpressive muscle tone. I reacquainted myself with the facts of this one’s circumstances, and emitted a contemplative hum. By all accounts, he was a weakling, who was a few slip-ups away from being executed by Betterment. He was captured by humans on the cradle, seeking defection to Earth. During the exchange of the Venlil cattle, he’d been returned with the other Arxur prisoners.

I’d observed this scrawny grunt, once he was transferred under my direct command. Jones’ hint that he pleaded for Earth not to return him, during our prior conference at Proxima Centauri, confirmed my suspicions that he hated Betterment. He had already wanted to leave, before Cilany’s broadcast or my offer. I decided that an apparent defective would have undying loyalty, as long as I kept him fed. The Terrans hadn’t protected him, so I doubted he’d run back to them.

The perfect second…assuming he’s accepting of Felra and empathetic Arxur. A stretch for anyone raised on Wriss.

Felra scurried up atop my head, which earned a long stare from the newly-arrived Arxur defector. I donned my most threatening scowl, and bared my teeth. The scrawny grunt ducked his head submissively, allowing Lisa to show him to a chair. He waited with expectancy, a hint of anxiety showing in his fidgeting tail.

“Kaisal,” I greeted the Arxur. “I’ve been watching you for a while.”

Kaisal’s gaze swept across the table, before returning to Felra. “Why is the Dossur animal here? Ah, are we eating together? Oh my, the stupid thing doesn’t even realize. I am honored to join you, sir.”

“You will treat the Dossur with the respect befitting any companion of mine. She is not food. She is a trusted, loyal…friend.”

Realization flashed in Kaisal’s dark eyes, and he jerked back in surprise. Admitting that an herbivore was a friend was a massive risk, with an unknown Arxur. It was as good as confessing that I felt empathy, and not only that, that I was defective enough to seek bonds like a social creature. His lip curled with momentary contempt, though he reeled himself back in. A sliver of appetite flashed in his eyes as well.

“I am surprised you got it to sit still,” the grunt hissed, in a tone that was decidedly colder. “Those things do not view us as people. You must be very defective to convince it.”

“Hsss, that’s subjective, is it not? Defectiveness is not such a useless thing in war, as humans show. To feel empathy is to predict what your enemy will do…to strike as a unit. I think it is a good policy of the rebellion for us both, that we turn weaknesses into strength here.”

Kaisal mulled over my words for several seconds, absorbing my implication. I could see in his eyes that he despised the idea of associating with prey animals. However, we were together in having a critical weakness, which was not acceptable to Betterment. His other option was to return to the Dominion as a wimpy traitor; his own issues were why he’d been running from Wriss to start with.

Convincing him that every Federation herbivore is not the enemy can come another day. I need only his toleration and his compliance.

“It is nice to be able to control my actions, and to be treated as an equal.” Kaisal tapped a claw against his maw, and leveled my gaze. “I’ve never been this well-fed in my life. I’ll do whatever you say, and…try to put up with any animals, as long as that stays true.”

I lashed my tail. “Good. I need an advisor—someone who can speak of the humans, and their troops, from firsthand knowledge. I’m willing to take you under my wing, and teach you how to be tougher in return. Defective or not, I assure you I know much about military practices and the crueler arts.”

“We all know of your achievements, Isif. I don’t doubt your mettle.”

“As it should be. I’ve spoken enough words. Do you accept this advisor position?”

“Gladly I do. I…always hated the species I was a part of, sir. All my peers bashing weakness, the wretched lives we lead, being forced to join the war; I had nothing. If I must fight, I’m glad it can be for a chance to not fight and not starve.”

“Words to live by. Well, Advisor Kaisal, I imagine you feel the same as most Arxur about talking. However, we’re going to do a lot of it in here, and we start now. These topics are too important to let solitary natures get to any of us.”

“Understood. I put up with humans on the cradle and on Earth. I am somewhat used to it.”

“Truly, you can learn to tolerate anything in time. Let’s begin with discussing the war strategies, and Dominion movements, shall we?”

Olek and Lisa pulled up an overview of our total assets, as well as noteworthy developments in logistics and internal sentiments. The last known locations of Dominion forces were also included; keeping ourselves multiple light-years away from their prowling ships was key. Kaisal still shot occasional glances at Felra, though he seemed willing not to pounce at her. My new advisor leaned in, and put his own mind to work assessing our potential targets.

I wasn’t sure how we could get the upper hand against Betterment, but I liked the team I had at my side. With lab-grown meat gifted to us by Earth, we were stronger today than we were yesterday. My sole focus was chipping away at the Dominion’s armor, and waiting for the humans to commit to our cause.

---