The Nature of Predators 2-33
OC
First | Prev | Next

Star Crossed [Multiple Free Sample Chapters] | Patreon | Subreddit | Discord | Paperback | NOP2 Species Lore

---

Memory Transcription Subject: Taylor Trench, Human Colonist

Date [standardized human time]: June 25, 2160

I remembered hours ago, when Mafani had thrown my immobilized body out of the truck and sped off. Movement came back in the form of being able to flex my fingers, though it did little good; struggling against the bindings only made the heat punish me quicker. Sweat soaked my forehead under the scalding sun, and I began to understand what it meant to be desperate for a drop of water. I had the presence of mind not to scream for help with my parched throat—there was no one to call to. There was just my brain baking within its skull, and all the time in the world to think. As I accepted my slow death as inevitable, I reflected on my life.

It was difficult to make out what my parents’ faces had looked like, when I thought of the sorrowful sendoff. Trapped in that generation ship for months, only understanding the ramification of my parents being gone—that I was utterly alone in this new place. I remembered the desperate rush to build up the cavern, to carve out a new life with just the machines and resources we had on the ship. There were no summer breaks in school on Tellus; I remembered what a shock that had been to a nine-year-old. Everything was designed to hurry us off to the mines, without a care for whatever more I wanted from life. It took a long time before this place felt like home, or that I accepted my reality of being locked underground as part of a dying race.

That was the bitter childhood I saw looking back at my life, cut off at fifteen when we were deemed old enough to help out part-time. Had I accomplished anything aside from work and hatred? My adult life was consumed throwing myself at Mayor Hathaway to earn his favor, in the hopes that there might be something more one day; then, it was taking the most unappealing job on the colony, giving sweet words to the Krev rent collectors. My legacy was one of self-ambition, revenge fantasies never actualized, and ungratifying work for our mere survival. I had done nothing but hurt this world, and never had the opportunity to redeem myself.

Gress cared about me in spite of everything I’ve done, and how much of a fraud I am at my core. We were going to protect humanity, and contribute to the end of the Federation. I wanted to see that through—to be better for him. He’s the one happy memory I have.

“Gress…gets me,” I croaked aloud, as delirium began to create mirages in the distance. “The guilt. The shame. The awful dreams that seem so real.”

I wished that the Krev was here now, but there was only the sand of the untamed world. Whatever remarks Mafani had thrown at Quana, I never expected him to be a raging psychopath, who’d take me out in spite of how honor-bound Reskets were; he ignored a direct order from his supervisor, and tried to drag out my cruel fate. The heat, however, was strong enough that it might finish me off sooner. My muscles felt so weak, and it wasn’t just from boot camp running me down. Nausea toyed with my stomach, and my head felt like it was filled with helium: it could float away in a second. My eyes watered, wishing for mercy.

Gress told me about putting his first obor to sleep, and crying as the vet injected him with the euthanasia serum. Pets received a more humane end than I did; that alone proved that my friend wasn’t a monster on par with Mafani. Quana was deranged to call him a kit killer, or to act like he’d wanted that outcome when it clearly tore him up. I hoped that he could escape the past that haunted him better than I did. I prayed that my death—finding my body like this, shriveled up in the sun—wouldn’t hurt him too deeply. Causing him pain wasn’t my intention.

My eyes turned toward the shimmering horizon, spotting Gress and a Jaslip in a spacesuit for some reason, with a fully-geared up Cherise wielding a rifle. A hallucination, showing me my heart’s desire.

“Gress, how I wish you were here!” I sang, parodying a 2130s hit from Earth; a loopy smile crossed my face, as I scarcely knew what I was saying. “Just like that my Krev did appear. Now the world has no power, Mafani will cower—”

Cherise’s voice cut through the desert. “I know you’re delirious, Taylor, but no one wants to fucking hear you sing.”

“Now that is not true,” Gress protested, as he bolted to my side and slashed the ropes with the claws. The Krev pressed a paw to my cheek, concern alight in his sparkling eyes. Wait, is he real? “Easy. I’ve got you. Are you okay? What fucking happened?”

“Gress,” I coughed, hurling my arms around his smooth scales. “I’m sorry…for everything. I’m…no good. Wasted life.”

“That’s not true. The best part of your life is ahead of you. Quana, summon the automated rover to our location! Now. He needs a doctor.”

The Jaslip’s eye movements suggested her usage of an augmented reality lens. “On it. Good thinking, Gress; I couldn’t have found him without you.”

“Back at you. Your tracking and keen eyes: he would’ve died alone without you.”

“Nobody deserves to die like that. If I have to go, I’d want to go out on my own terms. Not as some…victim in some tragedy that earns pity. I know Taylor gets that.”

“Whether Taylor wants pity or not, he has mine! My heart hurts something awful, seeing him like this. I can’t bear to think how he must’ve suffered here. Cherise, quit standing there. Give me your fucking helmet.”

She recoiled. “I beg your pardon?”

“It has cooling and water built in. Taylor needs that for the heat exhaustion ASAP. I can hear him slurring his words, and his skin is blistering to the touch; I’ve never seen him this red.”

“Yeah, that’s gonna be a nasty sunburn.” Cherise removed her helmet with the water carrier attached; she passed it to Gress while still keeping a hand on her rifle. “Good thing he has an actual head of hair now, or his scalp would be lit up too.”

“But I liked the fuzz.” Gress slid the helmet over my head, and I gluttonously activated the water button with my chin. The fluids tasted so refreshing that a relieved shiver passed down my spine; the cold air was a literal oasis in the desert as well. “You mean so much to me, Taylor. You have no idea. I was worried sick when I realized you were gone. Who did this to you?”

I kept chugging water for several more seconds, worried I might never get another sip. “Mafani drugged me and left me out here to die. How…how did you find me? And you two…are playing nice?

“I noticed that Resket skulking around us for weeks, so I had a sneaking suspicion when you didn’t come back. For all of our issues with each other, the one thing Gress and I have in common is that we care about you,” Quana answered. “It’s my fault Mafani was sniffing in your business; you got involved to protect me. That’s not someone ‘no good’, Taylor.”

“I couldn’t stand by. It’s…Mafani’s fault for his own actions. He is a madman: a menace to society. We have to tell someone.”

“Already reported our suspicions before we left, and we’ll be sure General Radai hears your story. Let us get you back safely. If you ingested an unknown substance, you definitely need to see a doctor. Alien chemicals with your anatomy: needless to say, that requires a checkup.”

“Okay. Don’t leave me. Please don’t leave me.”

The Krev lashed his tail. “I wouldn’t dream of it. Up you go.”

My legs refused to cooperate when Gress and Cherise hoisted me to my feet, but the two caught me as my weak knees gave in. They hauled me to a newly arrived automated vehicle, and I relished the shade of its trunk space. Mafani had succeeded in killing my desire to feel the sun on my face, ever again. I latched onto the Krev’s scaly arm as if my life depended on it, despite how the touch scalded my skin further, and he gently settled my head into the crook of his arm. The terror of my near-death experience hadn’t left me, so I clung to the familiar divorced dad like a koala. Being coddled by an alien suddenly sounded like the exact prescription I needed from a doctor, for comfort if nothing else.

I owe Gress, and all of them, my life. Mafani is still out there though; I don’t want to go anywhere on the base if he’s there, and certainly not alone. Who knows what he’s capable of?

“Why don’t you treat me?” I asked the melty-eyed Krev. “You have medical training…you said so. And I trust you.”

Gress’ tongue flitted out thoughtfully. “I’m not a doctor. My training is more about stopping blood loss.”

“Don’t look at me; I’m even less qualified,” Quana commented. “I worked as a deliveryperson back in Esquo’s Fighters. I can haul you around in a bigass wagon, but not much else.”

“I one-hundred percent volunteer to get pulled in a wagon by you. Where do I sign?” I shot back.

The Krev pouted. “Only Quana? Why can’t I pull you around in a wagon? I’ll do it with a much better attitude than her.”

“Because I want to ride on your tail like Lecca, and I’m way too big. Also, none of you answered my question about how you found me—only how you figured I was missing.”

“I found Resket prints near your scent, and also discovered that they stopped by what looked like tire tracks. I realized I’d need backup to take on Mafani, and evidence to rope in a proper search party,” Quana explained. “With Gress being a hostage negotiator, he was the obvious one to handle a…dangerous situation. No way of knowing Trainer Kibblarhan was long gone.”

Gress flicked his claws in assent. “I’m grateful Quana put our differences aside so that I could help. We have location sharing on—mostly so that you can interrogate me about places on Avor—so I saw you were speeding way off into the middle of the desert. Somehow, in spite of Radai’s gauntlet of late, I didn’t think you were running.”

“General Radai won’t get rid of me that easily,” I murmured. “I’m here to stay.”

“I’m glad you’re in good spirits, Taylor, but don’t feel like you need to put on a happy face for us. What you just went through would be a lot for anyone. Nobody will blame you for being shaken up.”

“I’m frazzled, but I’m also really pissed the fuck off at that kibblarhan. Wanting Mafani to pay will keep me going. You wallow in pity and fear, or you do something about it. I won’t give him the satisfaction of breaking me, Gress.”

Cherise cleared her throat. “Taylor, you’re already dealing with lots of residual trauma.”

“And you’re not? Like Quana said, I don’t want to be a victim.”

“My point is, this machismo deal causes more harm than good. You were drugged, kidnapped, and exposed to the elements to the brink of death. You don’t need to prove anything to anyone. We all want to see you bounce back from this ordeal, but don’t rush yourself—and go flying off on some emotion-fueled revenge quest.”

“It’s almost as if you want me to drop out of boot camp. You thought I’d be too weak.”

Quana flicked her ear. “She’s just looking out for you. Don’t take your stress out on her.”

“Whatever. I don’t care what any of you not doctors—your words—try to diagnose me with. I’m fine. Period. Back on topic, I wonder how Gress found my location. Mafani thought of that…he took my holopad.”

Gress cleared his throat. “For soldiers, it’s tied to your translator implant, so they find you if you desert. Same for diplomats and important figures, but it’s more so they know where you were taken in case of kidnappings. I still have connections in…certain departments of law enforcement, who can access those…secret functions.”

“It was news to me that you can track anyone, even outside Avor or facial recognition checkpoints,” Quana hissed, pawing at the locale of her implant with discomfort. “I shudder to think how you might be monitoring us.”

“Truthfully, I’m sure they do keep an eye on your movements. The less I expand on this system, the better. It’s classified: not something I’m supposed to be sharing. It did what it needed to, and Quana came through. Why don’t you tell him?”

The Jaslip’s whiskers twitched. “Gress couldn’t pinpoint your exact location outside of a grid, so we left the vehicle so I could track you. Too hot for an arctic carnivore like me, hence the suit. I picked up your scent, just a little while before you broke out in that horrid song.”

“You can only berate my singing if you can carry a tune after being drugged and left in the desert for hours. It’s not a fair test of my abilities!” I objected.

“His rendition of ‘Happy Birthday’ on video to Lecca was much better,” Gress piped up in my defense.

Cherise eyed him doubtfully. “Show me?”

“Maybe later.”

“That wasn’t for her ears,” I commented. “She wants to make fun of me, because I did something nice for a child.”

“Don’t listen to him,” she countered. “I’m a nice person. I’d never mock Taylor to his face.”

Gress chuckled. “I’ll consider it later, but we’re back at base. Let’s get him to the medical office for blood tests and treatment; Radai is waiting for us there. I recorded this entire mission in my lens, and shared it with him.”

As the vehicle stopped back on the familiar hillside, having sped away from that God-forsaken desert, I allowed myself to process that the Krev had the ability to track Tellus’ citizens at will. Whatever their reasons, I wasn’t fond of a foreign government knowing my whereabouts at all times; given that it saved my life, I wasn’t going to pick a fight over it. I steeled myself as my friends helped me onto a waiting stretcher, and I was carted back to the medical office. This felt like when I collapsed due to my mining accident injuries, after bludgeoning a certain emerald-scaled Krev with my cane. I could see the dirt pouring in on my head from the ceiling, while also hearing Mafani’s gloating register.

What was it that he said about Radai not being here to save me? If the Reskets are serious about honor, I expect the general to make his kinsman pay for what he did.

The medics removed Cherise’s helmet, and after a brief discussion, she retook the accessory she’d given me—grumbling about it smelling like “Taylor sweat.” Honestly, her giving me shit as usual was helping keep me sane right now. I was grateful for all of my friends. If I’d accomplished one thing worthwhile in my lackluster existence, it was finding people who’d put in the effort to bring me back. They risked their own lives, not knowing if Mafani was keeping an eye on me. In Quana and Gress’ case, they cooperated with someone who, in their mind, disturbed them because of an unforgettable instance of child butchery. I latched onto those positive thoughts, pushing back the dread that threatened to consume me.

General Radai followed alongside the gurney, a cold look in his eyes. “I heard what Mafani did. I can’t believe that he not only defied my orders, but did something so dishonorable as to shame his repute and family name across all Tanet. Every Resket will hear what he’s done, and he’ll have no safe haven with our people. What an absolute disgrace.”

“What Mafani did needs a lot more than dishonor and gossip…sir,” I hissed. “I want him to pay for what he did. Where is he? Lock that animal the fuck up!”

“Trench, I’m going to let that slide once because of what you’ve been through. Trainer Mafani went AWOL, but we’re looking high and low for him. We know his tactics and his delight in your suffering; we have every intent to charge him with High Dishonor. You don’t want to know the punishment that carries on Tanet.”

“Actually, I do, sir.”

“Then you can look it up on your own time. Mafani definitely knows the sentence that charge carries, so I imagine he’ll go down fighting. I’m sorry this happened to you, human. I never thought…even with his prior posting…”

“What prior posting?” Quana demanded.

“Mafani was part of The Underscales before he was transferred. It’s quite rare to see a Resket in the…branch that does the military’s dirty work. I heard he was stationed at Omnol Valley.”

“Those people torture ‘suspected extremists.’ It’s infamous across the Consortium, beyond even us Jaslips! The tactics they use are—”

“Most dishonorable. I admit, I assumed a Resket Underscale wouldn’t participate in such methods, but now, I’m not so sure. Clearly, Mafani revels in the suffering of anyone he deems an enemy.”

“Mafani needs to be put down like a rabid dog.” I curled my hand into a fist. The Krev have their own interstellar Guantanamo Bay to throw Jaslips in. Delightful. “Find that fucker. He’s not worth the air he breathes.”

“I second that,” Quana said.

Radai lowered his head. “We’re doing everything we can to find him. There’s only one spaceport on this planet, so he couldn’t have gotten off Tellus. Mafani will have to show his face eventually, and we’ll be waiting. I have only one question for Taylor.”

“Ask away,” I encouraged the Resket.

“When we figure out where he went…and assuming the doctors clear you for action…do you want to be part of the team that goes after him? I think it’d be a worthy first field mission.”

“Absolutely. I want nothing more than to bring him down, sir.”

“We all want in on this; at least, I think I speak for us all.” Gress turned to Quana, worried about agreeing on her behalf. The Jaslip flicked her ear with eagerness, fired up even more at the news of the trainer’s history. Cherise gave a nod as soon as as the Krev’s eyes landed on her. “Mafani hurt our friend, and we all have a score to settle now. Taylor won’t do this alone.”

“Then it’s settled,” Radai squawked. “Be ready to go on short notice. I’ll let you know as soon as we have a lead. For now, rest up; I’ll leave Taylor in the doctor’s care.”

As the Resket departed from the medical office, I turned my eyes to the ceiling. Once I was patched up and back on my feet, I’d be revved up to go after Mafani; it was enough to know that my friends stood with me, ensuring that I wouldn’t be heading into danger alone. Tellus would be at risk as long as a trainer lacking a moral compass was on the loose, so the sooner I put a bullet through his skull, the better. I’d also be keeping an eager ear attuned to news of the war, and the impending strike on the Federation. With the Krakotl and Mafani hopefully going down in short order, our missions would be a literal two birds with one stone.

---