The Nature of Predators 2-41
OC
First | Prev | Next

Star Crossed [Multiple Free Sample Chapters] | Patreon | Subreddit | Discord | Paperback | NOP2 Species Lore

Memory Transcription Subject: Tassi, Bissem Alien Liaison

Date [standardized human time]: July 27, 2160

The Sivkit fleet accompanying me on my journey back to Ivrana didn’t prove talkative. I became lonely enough that Loxsel’s check-ins were the highlight of my day, with his flamboyance and wild theories. He was more entertaining than remotely calling in to Sapient Coalition meetings, as they tracked the progress of the war; news of Tinsas’ presumed locale gave way to wild potential theories. I thought someone should suggest to the Grand Herd that they might be fighting their own people: Sivkits who had outlasted the Federation. Regardless, the humans were placing walls of disruptors to slow the attack fleet down, and considered the Kolshians, Farsul, and Krakotl to be likely targets. Each day of new sensor data seemed to align with that notion, making it evident that this attack was pointed at the Federation. 

The perceived opposition to Fed dogma made the matter of the Osirs’ annihilation even stranger, since it occurred well after the conspiracy ventured past Sivkit and Paltan borders. Perhaps the Tinsas-dwellers clung to the idea that predators were evil, while faulting the Federation for their homeworld’s devastation and the relocation of their species at the same time. The ideas weren’t mutually-exclusive; this could also answer the question of who had backed the ghost exterminators, with every possible lead drying up. Zalk and the Tseia had been growing restless, so I floated that theory in the hopes it’d settle their feathers. The Nomads were getting their tails kicked in back on Ivrana, as the other Bissem powers caught up technologically. The gifted Arxur ships had changed the tide.

Lassmin has stayed neutral, though I’m not sure if Naltor still wants us to get called on for assistance and wrangle something out of the Nomads. We’re prepping Nelmin for the Sivkit refugees, since they’ll need somewhere to start a settlement.

I fiddled with a notes application on my holopad, as Loxsel called for his daily check-in. Somewhere among his accusations and scraping tally marks on the wall behind him, of the days since the Grand Herd was “tyrannized,” I could try to acquire useful information. There was a shortage of data on what they needed to survive and maintain their culture, as well as how they structured their cities. Once the wandering herbivores noticed how pleasant their accommodations were, I was hopeful we could become friends. This was technically one more party that had opened diplomatic relations with Bissemkind; we just needed to finesse them into something more dignified. Trying to form some personal connection with their ambassador would be a good start.

“Good morning,” I greeted the Sivkit.

Loxsel’s eyes turned manic. “There are no good mornings, not anymore! Perchance the edacious simians WOULD have freed Tinsas, but now, they truly rest on their haunches. Our fate lies betwixt two predators, and I had to select our executioner. Alack, it is a sad day. A hopeless, atramentous day!”

“I don’t think it’s hopeless. Your people will be away from the front lines of the war, in a brand new land. I know you like to wander, so perhaps you’ll find a kindred spirit in the Tseia. They’re nomadic as well, with seasonal settlements. Would Sivkits be interested in something similar? We could seek the Nomads’ input.”

“We vacate our commorancy not on celestial whims, like befouled beasts of the earth, but to slake our palates on the resources of the land. Until we can have Tinsas, the planet whence Sivkits derived our origin, we’ll devour any pastures we descry! There must be no repose!”

“Loxsel, I believe you’re…smarter than me,” I offered diplomatically. “Could you try to use simpler words, for a primitive like myself?”

The Sivkit’s ears pinned back with irritation. “You aren’t that primigenial…and I like my words! Have you not muzzled us hapless prey creatures enough?”

“I like your words too. I just don’t understand them, because like you said, I lack…erudition. I’m uncultured, right?”

“Fie, you are impossible to conversate with! Are any Bissems literate?!”

“I guess not.” This is a chance to bond over something he says he likes. “Maybe you can teach me, Loxsel?”

The Sivkit ambassador’s tail slowly lowered from where it was raised with rage. “Hmph. I’ll think about it. I do have my plays…peradventure you could learn something. Though tragedies might give you ideas about novel suffering.”

“You’re a playwright? I mean, that’s awesome; I’d love to see them!”

“I haven’t let anyone read my plays.”

“Why not? You have a fine control of language; I’m sure they’d hold up well to your contemporaries.”

“My endings are predator-diseased, Tassi. Killing characters—they say it’s a violent fantasy. All I do is make my fictional creations rue the day they were born! If the audience feels melancholy, then I feel jubilation!”

“Perhaps…” I hesitated, not sure if this was a proper suggestion for the Sivkit. “Perhaps you’d find better audiences with us predators.”

Loxsel’s eyes lit up, fitful excitement shining from inside. “Of course! It’s obvious; flesh-eaters love suffering! Maybe I could be entertainment cattle, making the humans growl and cackle at the demise of my characters. The soldiers, here at the base. That’s brilliant! I bid you adieu, reaver of fish!”

The Sivkit hung up without expending another second on the call, concerns about the state of the refugees thrown aside. Amusement flickered in my mind, as I weighed how the ambassador might go about being “entertainment cattle.” The humans on that Paltan-Terran base weren’t ready for what was about to hit them. I was a bit curious just how tragic Loxsel’s endings were, if they were the root of most of his predator disease accusations. Literature was never my field, but alien media was the exception; I’d love to devour anything created from another culture, and it might give me small insights into Sivkit customs. Engaging with the material and providing thoughtful feedback might spark some personal connections with the dramatic herbivore.

What is Loxsel going to do if the people that attacked him were Sivkits? Someone will have to raise that topic with the Grand Herd, especially since they want to purge the “intruders” and reclaim Tinsas. It’s a shame the enemy won’t communicate with us; the SC needs to get creative.

My eyes drifted over to a timekeeping device, sighing as I saw there were still a few hours to kill before the day’s SC proceedings. The Osirs’ day of rebirth ticked closer, with their gestational period under way. I wondered how the humans would go about finding homes for them; that was another item that we could volunteer for. As carnivores ourselves, Bissems were more qualified to raise a “predatory” species than Federation-tampered herbivores. Beyond the political benefits, I believed it was a noble purpose—bringing a slaughtered race back from extinction. If it was my kind that had been annihilated for our diet, I would want someone to care enough to do the same. It almost was Bissems, wiped out by ghost exterminators.

“Bissem diplomatic vessel, this is the patrol vessel UNS Audacity. Please acknowledge,” a hail buzzed over the speaker, jolting me from my thoughts. A dot flashed onto the sensors, following an intercept course.

Finally. Sane, receptive company to talk to. I could definitely afford to exchange a few pleasantries with humans; let’s hope they’re chatty and let a few cultural fun facts slip.

I leaned over the microphone, accepting the transmission. “UNS Audacity, this is Doctor Tassi. I’m escorting Sivkit refugees back to Ivrana for their safety. My travel plan should’ve been relayed ahead; any deviations aren’t intentional. Is there something I can help you with?”

“We have a sensitive matter we would like to discuss in-person, away from prying ears. Requesting permission to board your vessel,” came the reply. “It’s in Ivrana’s best interests to hear what we have to say. We’d prefer to talk to you, without your generals around.”

“I don’t have the authority to make decisions for my government or about military policy, but I’m happy to talk with our allies. I always have time to cultivate friendship between humans and Bissems.”

“That’s greatly appreciated. Please, just drop into real space for a moment at these coordinates; you can continue along your FTL flight path after that. We’ve become skilled at quick boardings, so it won’t be much of an inconvenience.”

“It’s not a concern. I’ll welcome humanity’s visitors at the specified location with gladness.”

My flippers input the forwarded coordinates to transition to realspace, though I was puzzled by what “sensitive matters” they wished to tackle outside of Naltor and Zalk’s view. I wondered whether I should relay a message back to the Bissem military officers; my chief loyalty was to Ivrana and her people, and I didn’t want to circumvent their authority. What gave me pause was that the Terrans might be looking for a less heavy-handed approach than that duo could offer. If Bissems were to attain any goodwill, I needed to demonstrate that I could act with discretion. It wasn’t like the primates had shown ill intent toward my home; if they wanted to harm us, they’d had ample opportunity. This hushed conversation must be for a noble purpose.

Slipping out of subspace was smooth and barely noticeable, with the autopilot figuring out the subtleties. Cruising around the galaxy in a spaceship and picking up visitors from a friendly alien race had once been my dream. The fact that it was a reality still made a part of me bubble with giddiness, even after all of the horrific occurrences since first contact. If this form of travel was to become commonplace for Bissems, we had to keep our spot in the Sapient Coalition. Humanity weren’t deities or miraculous saviors, but they were a kind-hearted species who hadn’t let persecution defeat them. I wanted to work alongside them as equals. I hoped they could reignite the awe and wonder for the universe I’d felt when their shuttle first landed in the Gray Basin.

The connection of the UNS Audacity was imperceptible, aside from the slightest tremor passing through the floorboards. I waddled over to the upper hatch, and heard three taps against it; the humans wouldn’t blow the door off on a friendly visit. I lowered the ladder for easy access and popped the seal open. A set of primate legs clambered down, revealing an older woman that I recognized from a recent SC briefing. A shiver passed down my spine, remembering how the Thafki ambassador had lobbed an accusation at Bissems over the Arxur’s escapade—one that hadn’t been incorrect. I wasn’t sure how we’d fulfill our pledge to lobby for Kaisal’s people, when suspicions were already upon us.

What is General Jones even doing here? It’s strange for a high-ranking military official to pay me a visit, without Naltor or Zalk around. I don’t see what she’d even want from me, especially if she’s here to share relevant intelligence.

Blue-gray legs straddled the ladder after Jones, taking a cautious approach into the shuttle. With the Thafki’s accusation fresh in my mind, I was worried to see that species among the boarding party; my concerns eased when I recognized the white fur-patch on her chin. Haliska looked as shrewd as she had during our games of Migration. The semi-aquatic herbivore excelled in long-term strategizing, something my intuition told me she had in common with Cora Jones. Hallie’s body language was much less open than it was during our bonding time, and I wondered if she believed the ambassador’s accusation. Could I even deny it to her face, knowing how deeply the Arxur ravaged her people? Hadn’t I betrayed her by helping her oppressors?

The third and final visitor was another familiar face, one that’d been kept away from Ivrana ever since the Tseia shared their story. Nulia—the quiet, observant one who loved to people-watch—maneuvered onto my ship. I was happy to see the Gojid sociologist, since I’d never had the chance to assure her I didn’t hold the Starlight Incident against her, even if the Tseia did. She’d done everything in her power to atone for what members of her race did; Nulia’s return to the Sapient Coalition and shouting the tale of Ivrana’s attack to the galaxy was likely what made Onso reach out at all. We had a lot of catching up to do, given how Dustin had been the one showing us the ropes in our SC trial period. 

“Hallie, Nulia. I can’t believe you came all the way out here to visit me!” I chirped, opening my flippers in a hug invitation. “It was getting lonely, after such a long trip. It’s really good to see two friendly faces; I’d welcome the company, if you’d care to hitch a ride.”

The Gojid waggled a claw. “I’d love to hear how you’re adjusting, and what you think of various societies; I have the full context on how they’ve changed since joining the SC, and what they were like before the Federation. However, I’m afraid that’s a topic for another time.”

“Of course. General Jones said you have sensitive matters to discuss, and I’m all ears. I confess, I’m quite curious how both of you wound up tied with…someone I believe deals in intelligence.”

“We want you to tell us everything about your dealings with the Arxur, Tassi,” Jones commented idly. “Your friends pieced together several things that were off about your behavior, and I stitched together the rest. It’s time to come clean. Whatever information you have on their plans, you need to share it with us.”

Haliska’s eyes were cold and impassive, as she inspected me. “As a neuroscientist who knows how your brain works, I thought I’d understand more of how you’re thinking. In a scientific sense, I do, and yet I thought you felt some sympathy for how those fuckers terrorized my species. You’ve heard about the generational trauma—how Thafki were relegated to cattle farms—and you think they should be released?! That we should deal with them and act like nothing happened?”

“Of course not…look, I was morally opposed to dealing with the Arxur at all!” I blurted, cowering  under her smoldering glare. The Thafki didn’t look fearful, like she had at the feast; she seemed hateful. “The Yotul put us up to it. They said they’d block us from the SC if we didn’t go along with it. We, um, communicated with the grays, and just like that, we got a trial introduction. It’s the truth!”

Nulia sighed in disappointment. “The Technocracy shouldn’t have put you in that position. Your secrecy about the visit to Leirn, the mysterious benefactor feeding you tech…I understand that Bissems did it for advancement, and a seat at the table. But I don’t understand why you went along with it, Tassi. It’s so unlike you.”

“I…I’m sorry. Kaisal said that the Collective was leaving isolation one way or another, and I figured helping a diplomatic bid was better than war. I never wanted more conflict and death; it broke my heart hearing about your checkered past, on top of seeing global conflict break out among my people. Please believe I only wanted to keep Bissems…and the wider galaxy…safe. Please.”

“Is there a reason you didn’t think humanity should know about this?” Jones asked.

“I didn’t want anyone to know we met, because of optics. We didn’t plan to speak with the Arxur on Leirn; Kaisal was just there, because the Yotul have trading aspirations. If we withdrew, there was no getting into the SC. I confess, I really wanted a chance with the galactic community…to be a part of it all. I see how Hallie and Nulia are looking at me now, but maybe…maybe it is time to at least hear the Arxur out.”

The Gojid’s eyes were also stern. “The Arxur’s crimes are still in living memory. They razed my entire planet, which separated me from my mother; my species is endangered as much as Haliska’s. And that was hardly their first raid against us. It was only a remarkable captain who fended them off earlier, and let me be born at all.”

“That’s horrific, Nulia, and I’m so sorry…but blaming the current Arxur is like blaming you for the ghost exterminators attacking us. If they’re reformed and changed, are they wrong to feel they shouldn’t have those atrocities held against them?”

“Tassi, you don’t know what you’re talking about. Kaisal himself participated in the raid that ended the cradle, and ate Gojids alive during it. He did that. That’s the leader of the Arxur Collective, so forgive me if I don’t trust someone who ate my kind in the past.”

“Kaisal…what?” A shiver ran down my spine, along with an extra lump of guilt forming in my throat. “I had no idea. I only knew that Dustin lied—no, left out a lot of parts of the story. Like the Federation starving the Arxur, their governments colluding, or Earth being saved by the grays and helped in the war by their rebellion. How can I make decisions when you’re not telling me all the facts?!”

Haliska scowled. “Dustin has worked closely with Nulia and I for a decade. He doesn’t sympathize with the species that hurt us, because he cares about our feelings—and he cares about what they did to us. I guess humans rescued the Thafki cattle just so they’ll have to look at Arxur wandering the galaxy, thanks to you.”

“Not thanks to me. That’s not fair, Hallie; the grays wanted out on their own.”

“But you told them about the Osirs, knowing they’d come speeding in. Complicating a situation where we’re already in fucking danger!”

“That’s enough anger. Tassi is going to help us fix this.” General Jones raised a finger for silence, and turned pupils that made me feel like I was being dissected. “The doctor was misled by her military allies, who just wanted those Arxur ships we definitely didn’t notice. Isn’t that right?”

“It’s…not completely wrong,” I replied meekly.

“You have no idea the mess you’ve created. Tassi, you’re aware how angry Zalk is over the Starlight Incident, which was three locations affecting one nation. The Arxur bombed entire planets and shackled races for centuries. There’s billions of Zalks out there with extra reasons to hate the Collective. It’s complicated for humanity to navigate; it’s a battle just to keep the Arxur alive and unoccupied. Our allies would prefer they meet other fates.”

“I know the SC hates them. I thought they were monsters too. I guess I just felt like they hated us because of them, and that’s not a fair comparison.”

“Humanity knows that feeling; we were likened to them, but we didn’t condone their crimes or put them ahead of our allies. You did, whether you meant to or not. If you’re sorry at all over how backstabbed your friends feel, then you should tell us this last bit. Forgiveness must be earned, and the damage you’ve done needs fixing. What is Kaisal’s plan with the Osirs?”

“Kaisal wanted to take back Apep, and to be involved in reinstalling the Osirs there, in person. I think he intends to go after whoever is responsible for their extinction. That’s all I know. I’m sorry, I…I really am. You’re all right about everything. I wish I could go back and walk away from the Yotul and their schemes; the last thing I want is for us to be pitted against each other. I do care about Haliska and Nulia, like Dustin, but I failed to act like it.”

Jones offered an artificial smile. “I’m glad you’ve seen sense, Tassi. We still have a mess to clean up. From now on, you work for me. You’re going to keep me apprised of exactly what Kaisal is up to, and send him whatever I ask.”

I don’t want to be involved with the Arxur at all, let alone be sent to manipulate them. That could make them into Bissems’ enemies, but then again, Jones wants to avoid a wider war. We can’t have him barging into the SC’s space…and I don’t want deaths on my conscience.

“I, er, I’m not sure I can get him to do anything. If I can help, I’ll try to undo the harm I’ve caused,” I murmured.

General Jones’ eyes gleamed. “Excellent. You also report to me on whatever schemes your generals cook up, and any of their plans involving the SC. You’re going to help me ensure Bissems don’t go causing more problems at a time like this. I suspect you have Naltor’s ear.”

“Whoa, I…I wouldn’t betray Lassmin like that. I want to protect Bissems, not…you’re asking me to spy on high-ranking military officials of two nations, and leak sensitive info to the very people they’re talking about. It’s treason, and it would undermine their plans. I love my planet and my country. I want what’s best for them, not to weaken their standing.”

“Naltor and Zalk chasing military gain isn’t what’s best for you. As for treason, there’d be no paper trail for them to find. All you have to do is get regular memory scans; that’s it. Consider it keeping an eye on you—parenting.”

“We don’t need parents, General. I’ll try to push them toward more peaceful, cooperative ideas of my own free will. I’ve already been trying to turn our resources toward more altruistic causes; look at the Sivkits. We can be team players. I can’t do what you’re asking, but I beg for you to give us a second chance.”

The human looked unimpressed. “You can do what I’ve asked of you, or we can share the Bissems’ involvement in this Arxur scheme with the SC. Something tells me Ivrana would wind up almost as isolated as the Arxur…and with as few friends. Humanity can shield you from all of this, of course, but we just need eyes on you to ensure we won’t get circumvented again.”

I froze in place for what felt like an eternity, mortified at potentially being locked out of the galaxy for good. What was scheming with the Yotul for, if we not only lost our spot on the SC, but had the entire organization turn on us? All I’d wanted was to be friends with these aliens, and if the Thafki ambassador had connected the dots…we needed the humans to throw their allies off the scent. Jones covering up our mess might be the last hope of joining the stars; while she hadn’t dangled it over my head, we also were reliant on the Terrans to fix Ivrana’s biosphere. The general was only asking this because we betrayed her trust, forcing her to ensure we wouldn’t ice her people out again. 

“Fine,” I relented. “Nothing that outright hurts my people or endangers lives. That’s where I draw the line.”

Victory sparkled in the primate’s binocular eyes. “Excellent. We are on the same side; there’s nothing to worry about. Oh, and since you mentioned those Sivkits…try to get closer to them too. We appreciate the tip about Tinsas, but it’d be useful to know how they found out. Now, I think you three need a chance to talk things through. Enjoy the ride home, ladies.”

The Terran clambered back onto her shuttle, leaving me dumbfounded about what I’d agreed to. If this was the only way to right my inadvertent wrongs, I was resigned to going along with it; Bissems needed humanity in our corner. I had to figure out just how I was going to gather intel on three separate entities, without any of them discovering my intent. However, what mattered right now was making amends with Haliska and Nulia. My alien friends had to know that I did care for them deeply, and that betraying their confidence had never been my intent.