The Nature of Predators 2-76
OC
First | Prev | Next

Krakotl Child Soldier | Patreon | Subreddit | Discord | Paperback | NOP2 Species Lore

Memory Transcription Subject: Elias Meier, Former UN Secretary-General

Date [standardized human time]: February 5, 2161

It hadn’t taken long to nominate a proper Secretary-General to succeed Kuemper, and I was pleased to learn that General Osmani would be taking up the mantle. I didn’t have any wish to reacquire my former role, for a great many reasons—for starters, I was both a science experiment and a security risk thanks to my digitized brain. Without having an old friend to look out for at the top of the UN, and given that the immediate crisis had blown over without an exodus from the SC, I had half a mind to retire to a quiet life. It seemed that the Jaslips wanted humanity to keep the “Osirs” on our turf, but a few participants had backed out after learning the carnivores weren’t extinct. Would it be inappropriate to consider taking one in?

The first priority was to ensure a smooth transition. Our leader’s selection process had been expedited by the Federation Remnants declaring war on “anyone who stood with humanity,” after learning that we were behind the attacks on Aafa and Talsk. While I would’ve preferred that this found a peaceable resolution, in their particular case, they were too vehemently opposed to our existence to be corrected by anything other than force. Erasing the legacy of the Federation meant disbanding anyone who carried on their name and ideals; the galaxy would never move on, so long as their shadow still hung over us. The United Nations couldn’t lock problems away and pretend they didn’t exist.

“Sir,” I greeted Secretary-General Osmani, extending an arm for a crisp handshake. I’d left a neat binder of priority items on his desk, and was eager to cede the responsibilities to him. He was a fitting choice for the office: a military man who was even-keel and diplomatic. “Congratulations. Might I add, the UN General Assembly made the choice I would have.”

Osmani dipped his head. “Thank you, Elias. It’s an honor. I was surprised that you didn’t make any sort of bid for office, after the speech you gave. It would’ve been your chance to make sweeping changes.”

“I got a motion to lift Aafa and Talsk’s quarantine on the agenda. The rest is up to you. You’re exactly what’s needed: the new generation cycling in and deciding your own destiny. It’s long overdue that us, the ones that came before you, hand over the keys—now more than ever, when we’ll be around far past our expiration dates.”

“I confess, I do worry about the implications. You came to this station originally to speak of the guardrails that must be put in place with this technology, and I’d like to see that through. There is wisdom to be found in our predecessors nonetheless. If you’re willing, I’d like to keep you on as an advisor.”

I manually blinked to signal surprise, and mulled over his offer for a moment. “If you want me to stay on temporarily, at least until talks are finalized with General Radai, I don’t leave things half-done. I have one condition though.”

“Name it.”

“Call Jones on the carpet to demand an explanation for her behavior, then have her kicked to the curb. The Americans have let their attack dog get too far off-leash. Humanity doesn’t need to fight dirty with our own allies.”

Osmani leaned forward. “What did General Jones do? If it was butting heads with you in Gress’ interrogation, I won’t rattle cages at the Pentagon over a personal vendetta.”

“This is about her meddling with the Bissems’ first contact. She attempted to blackmail a scientist into being an informant, and it’s her general lack of moral boundaries that gives me pause. We nip this kind of…behavior in the bud, or else humanity will become the next Federation, bending the newer species to our will.”

“That could be damaging to Earth’s reputation; it plays right into the Yotul’s anti-uplift agenda. Jones and her ways are past their expiration date, and I see fit to leave them in the past. I’ll see what I can do to have her, at the least, stuck planetside…and find out what the heck she was thinking.”

“Wouldn’t we all like to know that?” I grumbled. “All she achieved was alienating a potential ally, and pushing them to the Arxur. And now, those same Arxur are throwing a wrench in a peace deal that was all but final by attacking the Consortium.”

Osmani settled in his chair, leaning back. “The Krev don’t want to surrender their military unconditionally after one of their allies was invaded by the Collective. I heard about that. We need to get Radai to solidify this treaty, yesterday.”

“We get any form of agreement, his strict sense of honor will hold him to it. I get the impression that the delay has been Radai’s standing with his own government. Taylor Trench’s transcript shows that the Resket general suspected he’d be assassinated or used as a scapegoat.”

“While he controls the Krev Consortium military, I question that he represents the interests of the greater organization. Besides, if Radai wants to broker a peace, why has he not recalled the attack drones?”

“You’ll want to hear that from the General’s lips,” I groaned. “At least they’ve been routed away from Kalqua. We offered him a connection that he had been able to use, so it’s within his power. That’s a saving grace, though the fact they were heading there at all chafes at Korajan.”

“The Duerten’s attitude hasn’t gone unnoticed. I’m amazed you kept them here at all—and by extension, made the Shield more unsure about joining hostilities. They’d be leery to attack their founding member. Why don’t you put Radai on the line, and I’ll listen to his reasoning from here? You already have rapport.”

I hesitated, before taking a chair opposite Osmani and swiveling the camera around to face myself. “If you call respect for my morality rapport. Radai is remorseful over the lives taken under his orders, but I get the impression he doesn’t view synthetic beings favorably.”

My conversations with the avian had been intriguing. As we understood it, Radai had felt a great deal of sympathy and a duty to protect the Tellish, but seemed to find immense dishonor in the KC hiding from a false threat. The unnecessary bloodshed weighed on his conscience, leaving him to sound near suicidal at the disrepute. The Resket wasn’t an unrepentant man, and I didn’t want him to take his own life in some cultural display; other elements in the Consortium might lack scruples. We knew much of their leadership were veiled authoritarians, though that wasn’t a reason to continue a costly war. Radai needed to stand down the drones to atone for his past sins—and avoid creating new ones.

Osmani might be better at managing Radai, as a military man himself. Damn it, Chief Hunter Kaisal has done nothing but complicate delicate situations! I want peace between the Arxur and the rest of the galaxy, but they aren’t helping themselves.

Given their loathing of the Federation, I knew the Krev Consortium would be thrilled under normal circumstances to help dispatch the Remnants. That faction had vowed to eliminate the predators responsible for the attack on Aafa, and had declared war at once after receiving the news. The Yulpa had attempted an assault on Liberty’s Bastion, one of Earth’s most symbolic colonies in Mazic space. While it’d been fended off, there were 150 species in alliance: they were stretching themselves thin, but it seemed they had deeper pools of ships than we expected. I wouldn’t mind subduing the planets by force, yet the UN could not condone glassing worlds. The second we crossed that line, it would happen again.

“Good morning, Radai; I hope we haven’t woken you, since I believe it’s early on Tanet,” I ventured with politeness. “Just wanted to check in for an update on the search for the rogue Farsul.”

The Resket turned a large, bleary eye toward the camera. “It’s our top priority; the Federation conspiracy was alarming to learn of, and with this sect holding the view to kill all predators, they’re even worse. We don’t want them in our backyard. However, space is a vast area to sweep, and we have zero leads—other than that they’d have to be in range of an escaping Sivkit. Even if he had information about the Farmdom, there’s no guarantee his story checks out. I cannot misallocate resources now.”

“Misallocating resources is exactly what’s been troubling me. Can you spell out to me again why you won’t recall the drones? I want to ensure there’s been no misinterpretation.”

“I speak plainly, Elias Meier. We ensured that the Duerten were not harmed, since they are now your allies. However, these species bear the name of the Federation, and would pick up where they left off, which makes them enemies of the Consortium. They sabotaged your defense of Aafa, then had the gall to blame you—and are now attacking you. It’s in your interests to let our drones hit two powerful members: the Drezjin and the Malti. It’d occupy their ships.”

Osmani held up a piece of paper, where’d he scrawled words in permanent marker. THE ARXUR ARE ON THE ATTACK AS WELL. HITTING GRENELKA HARD.

I nodded, deciding to raise the SecGen’s point since the Arxur’s obstacle to the treaty was important. “So you’re going to fight a two-front war with the Arxur Collective? You’re both fighting the Remnants, and I hear the Krev want to retaliate after they aided Jaslip separatists.”

“The grays still want our help in destroying the Federation Remnants, though they’re in for a shock if they think the Krev will just accept them backing the Jaslip Independence Brigade. Kaisal crying ‘carnivore oppression’ will make him sound like the freedom fighters. However, I imagine we both agree that the remnants are a bigger enemy.”

“Then why won’t you sign our treaty? Stand down your military and help rebuild what you destroyed.”

“The Consortium has no quarrel with humanity—in fact, the Krev are very partial to you and would be keen on an alliance. However, we cannot stand down our military until the threats we face are fully nonexistent. Sivkits moving a few hours from Avor, Farsul extremists in our space, the Jaslips are rebelling, and the Collective and remnants are still out there: the former in open war? They would have to be mad to relinquish their agency now!”

They? Osmani wrote.

“Why do you say they, like you aren’t making the decisions? You dictate military plans; you’re the top dog,” I commented, following the SecGen’s lead.

Radai snapped his head back. “I don’t have as much say as you like to think. My word is less than useless, and I’m supposed to take orders from mystery figures. They replaced the delegates with who knows, aside from myself and Hathaway, but since I won’t come in—the Resket chair is absent and they won’t say who I’m answering to.”

“Then why listen?”

“Hierarchy and duty means something in our culture. The orders aren’t immoral. I do care about protecting the Consortium, so I’m not about to turn a blind eye to clear and present danger!”

TELL HIM TO ENGAGE MILITARY TARGETS, Osmani penned.

What? The SecGen doesn’t want Radai to call off the drones?

“Give me a moment to confer on the UN’s response. I have my own hierarchy to answer to.” I muted the microphone and switched off the feed for a moment. “Sir?”

Secretary-General Osmani offered a confident nod. “It would benefit Earth to have the Consortium lead an attack on the Malti and Drezjin forces. We don’t want civilians taken out, nor is it of the highest strategic value. Radai can change the programming to focus on ships, manufacturing plants, and military bases. He handles those and the fleet might be of good use.”

“What will we be doing?”

“Backing the Arxur Collective at Grenelka. The Yulpa struck at us first, after all we did to smooth their fur. Kaisal will get the backing from humanity he wanted. Our explicit support might thaw relations.”

“Very well, sir. Are we taking sides in the Jaslip and Arxur’s feud with the Consortium?”

Osmani snorted. “Absolutely not. These factions are all fools to become willing participants in multiple conflicts at once. We can have our say about the KC’s internal affairs after we provide assurances and get their surrender. The United Nations will handle one problem at a time.”

“Understood.” I returned to the feed with Radai, and gave him a serious stare. “The drones. Can you change their targets to military assets: taking out the actual fleet and bases of operation?”

“That would be feasible, so long as it’s ensured that the Federation are not a threat again.”

“I completely agree. Enough innocent people—enough entire species have suffered and died for no reason. I want as little bloodshed as possible, and I hope that you share my wish.”

“I do. I’ve told you what the Consortium thinks of the independence movement, but I’m not sure it’s honorable to contest the Jaslips’ desire to have their own world again. We have not taken adequate steps to mitigate their suffering and also owe them a debt for the wrongdoings committed against them. Not one species has offered to help rebuild Esquo, except you. They have noticed. It is said…that they want your help. I…hope this is not being considered.”

Is Radai trying to tell me something? He would know that the Consortium is surveilling this line. Coded messages aren’t my forte, and I don’t know why the KC military leader would want us to aid the JIB—especially as Resket soldiers under his authority are the ones putting them down. Then again, he said he didn’t have as much say as I thought; maybe that means…

“What is it that you’ve heard?” Osmani wrote within quotations, before making a “Go on” gesture to me.

“We aren’t involving ourselves in the conflict, though it would behoove us to know in advance. What rumors are circulating?” I questioned at my superior’s direction.

Radai cast a stern look at the screen. “The Jaslips are searching for anyone to back them, even by proxy. They believe the United Nations supports a species’…right to self-determination and liberties. I’m not sure what they would offer you for weapons, but the Consortium will not be happy if this occurs.”

“I see.” Definitely slipping us a message. Unless it’s in my head, Radai hasn’t signaled us so brazenly before. I didn’t think Reskets dabbled in subterfuge and subtext, but it appeared to me that Osmani sensed the same thing. We aren’t getting involved though. “The United Nations desires a peace treaty with the Krev Consortium: the sooner, the better. Rest assured that we will not make any hasty provocations.”

“I understand. It’s a relief to me not to be in open war with humanity, and I’d like to keep it that way. I’ll do what’s in my power to move the peace treaty ahead, but again, I have minimal contact with the delegates. You may wish to secure Tellus and the…human babies, in case tensions erupt on our side of space. I wouldn’t like to see the UN, an innocent party, caught in the middle of all of this.”

“That’s interesting advice, General Radai. Given the good-naturedness of restoring our species via ectogenesis, we wouldn’t expect those children to be weaponized.”

“I find it best in planning to keep any expectations out of your thinking, Elias Meier. At any rate, I have too many issues to look at to remain on this call any longer. I’ll keep you apprised on our search for the rogue Farsul. Take care.”

The Resket disconnected from the call before I could offer a farewell of my own, with final glances that seemed a bit furtive. I was perplexed by his insinuation about the human babies; it renewed my concern over leaving them under Krev custodianship. Didn’t the green-scaled mammals see us as the equivalent of puppies? It’d seemed unlikely that they’d allow any harm to befall the infants. All the same, having humans raised by aliens far away from where we could protect them…it opened us to a multitude of vulnerabilities. The Consortium had a sinister underside that’d go to any lengths to preserve their control.

“What do you think about that, sir?” I asked.

Osmani raised his eyebrows. “Ripping human babies away from doting Krev isn’t an option. Requesting that those guardians move to Paltan space, or any other Terran territory…that might help. The first Consortium citizens to transfer to the Sapient Coalition.”

“Will they want to move far away from their homes and societies?” 

“If these subjects were already willing to relocate to Tellus to raise the human children, I’m sure many would be eager to live among the cute primates’ society. We can use the cover of the Sivkits moving back to their homeworld, and explain that with ownership changing, they want as few…aliens as possible. We add in additional incentives for the adopted families to relocate, and we can take a lot of the Consortium’s potential toys out of the game.”

“Your plan sounds like it’s worth a shot. I don’t know how much Radai knows, but I doubt he’d come up with that out of the blue. It’s unlike him to think of such a dishonorable notion. Perhaps it was discussed as a method to handle us, if we interfered in the Jaslip war.”

Osmani pursed his lips. “While it’s my intention to deal with one problem at a time, we must show strength. At the risk of provoking the Grand Herd, I intend to bring more UN assets to Tellus. We have to be ready to protect human life out there as well.”

Seeing how the new Secretary-General handled that complicated conversation and crafted well-reasoned plans at a moment’s notice, I had full faith that the United Nations had made a wise choice. It was up to us to find a way to handle the Federation Remnants and the Krev Consortium, as well as to assess just how much of an ally General Radai was. Whatever the Resket’s endgame was, one thing was for certain: any Terran meddling in the Jaslip insurrection would invite swift retaliation. We had to choose our next actions with care.