The Nature of Predators 2-77
OC
First | Prev | Next

Krakotl Child Soldier | Patreon | Subreddit | Discord | Paperback | NOP2 Species Lore

Memory Transcription Subject: Quana, Jaslip Soldier

Date [standardized human time]: February 5, 2161

There was a brief delay in arranging our meeting with Chief Hunter Kaisal, since Aulan wanted the encounter to be in an open forum. As rotten as the Krev Consortium was, the Arxur’s reputation preceded them; they held sapient livestock, glassed dozens of worlds and raided more, and subsisted on heartless cruelty. The Esquo Massacre was a hug festival compared to their crimes. If there was so much of a mention of eating the Krev or the Reskets, I was walking out on the spot. Cherise seemed twitchy as well, keeping her distance from the monsters who’d provided the Federation with the justification for humanity to be exterminated. Moving to Tellus wouldn’t have happened without the Arxur and their atrocities.

I mean, we had heard that the Arxur saved Earth, and I’m not sure how Cherise feels about that. I can’t imagine how Terrans felt having to buddy up to those terrors out of necessity…having to earn their favor. Is that what’s being asked of the Jaslip Independence Brigade?

My human friend blinked several times. “What would the Arxur know about ‘mistreatment,’ Quana? Zefriss talking as if they have moral standards—”

“We do,” came the low growl, despite the fact we were well away from any grays; their hearing must be as keen as the Jaslips’ ears. Cherise took a step back as the so-called operative stalked over, lashing his stony gray tail. “Before our rebellion, there was an ideology called Betterment, which believed that to make us stronger, all emotions must be killed. They would execute any defectives.”

“Like me!” another Arxur declared, in a voice that sounded overly chipper and mischievous. “What’s your name, human?”

My friend hesitated, reluctant to share anything. “Cherise.”

“Cherise! I’m Hysran, and I have a joke just for you. Why did the Tellish expect the Jaslip story to be a lie?”

“We didn’t, so—”

“Because they have tall tails!”

Cherise groaned and wrinkled her nose. “Really?”

“I don’t get it,” Zefriss and I growled in confusion.

“It wasn’t meant for you.” Hysran raised her elongated snout in a smug gesture, and I found my hackles falling a bit. These two weren’t acting like sociopathic monsters; if the defectives had taken control, did that mean that the Arxur did exhibit basic empathy and decency now? It was tough to believe there was any coming back from foreign policy so depraved and accepted. “What do you think, Cherise?”

The human squinted at Hysran. “You learned puns in our language to tell a bad joke that’d only translate to me?”

“Precisely! I studied homonyms in the official language of the United Nations, though our ambassador to humanity always refused to use my material. She’s a killjoy. I realized as soon as I saw you that I had to do it myself!”

“Hysran is most intolerable,” Zefriss hissed. “Her jokes are proof that Arxur atrocities haven’t fully stopped.”

I pinned my ears back, growling. “I have a joke to tell. What do you call four Consortium delegates blown to bits?”

“Splatter paint?”

“Hey, how do you even know what that is?” Hysran inquired. “Wouldn’t that be unserious, meaningless drivel that you despise?”

“It is simple. Easy. Not over-the-top sensory nonsense, hrrr—just relaxing.”

“You have to show off your artwork, Zeffy!”

“Absolutely not. It is not a social activity.”

“Hss, I’ll badger you later. Now I doubt the Jaslip thought of splatter paint as her answer. Tell us: what do you call four Consortium delegates blown to bits?”

“A good start,” I spat.

Cherise gave a troubled frown. “Sorry, Quana, but splatter paint was actually funny. I guess if you’re not executing anyone who isn’t a comic book villain, then maybe you’re not…those monsters.”

“They repulse us too,” Zefriss remarked, holding up a paw that looked out of place. “I have polydactyly: one extra digit. I would have been executed to maintain genetic purity, despite the fact that I am not weak or hindered.”

Hysran gestured to my backside. “Quana can relate to polydactyly. She has two extra tails—look!”

“Lots of jokes about the fucking tails. Are you making fun of Jaslips for having three tail fronds?” I snarled, finding that implication to be discriminatory.

“Absolutely! Then, the human is the opposite: her tail is missing.”

Cherise gasped, feigning shock. “Really? Who took it?”

“Maybe Zefriss ate it!”

“No. Zefriss, how could you?”

“That’s enough of this! Hss, I am getting Kaisal and we are starting the meeting now,” Zefriss snapped, lashing his tail and storming off.

Hysran looked at Cherise, sealing one eye shut as if trying to imitate a wink. “You could say he’s having a hissy fit.”

The human snickered at some meaning I didn’t understand. “You’re crazy. I like that.”

I found myself a bit jealous at how well my best friend seemed to be hitting it off with this cannibal jester. The two of us had sold our souls enough without intertwining tails with the species whose past was as dark as night; the bombing that had torn us up would have been a snowflake in a blizzard to them. Whether the Arxur were engineered toward cruel dispositions or not, everything they’d done—that had been permissible and outright encouraged—wasn’t erased from their ledger. Hysran and Zefriss weren’t people I’d want watching my back, and Cherise couldn’t think so lowly of me to be substituting monsters in my stead.

Aulan hasn’t shown any reservations though, so at least the human has voiced some apprehension I suppose. It’ll be curious to see what this Kaisal is like, as the leader of the people-eaters. Maybe we should ask what his feelings are on eating the Krev?

Snarky Zefriss emerged from the bridge, and beckoned the Jaslip Independence Brigade in with impatience. Cherise stuck close to Hysran, all but forgetting me as I hustled after them, trying not to get separated. The primate was much too eager to move on to the new, brighter carnivore in the room. Were all Tellus colonists this willing to throw their lots in with the grays, after hearing that the cannibals were behind Earth’s survival? I recalled what it was like, standing in the town square, as the humans broke into open celebration; Jaslips would’ve reacted the same if someone could swish their tail and respawn Esquo. It must’ve given the colonists whiplash to go from believing they were the last of their kind, to learning the United Nations ruled a bubble that stretched a thousand light-years.

The spectators had to crowd into the bridge, with many tailing out into the hall; we were lucky to squeeze inside, thanks to our proximity to Hysran. A slender Arxur was standing by the viewport, and from the way his chest was puffed out, I could sense that he had something to prove. Perhaps Kaisal wanted us to exonerate him from the past misdeeds, or to swear undying fealty to his leadership. It was clear the potential that Aulan saw for us. This was a race who would be on our side unequivocally and wouldn’t condemn our methods. They also had a fleet that could contest the Consortium in orbit, and had shown that they were able to demolish the Resket soldiers.

“Thank you for your assistance, Chief Hunter Kaisal,” Aulan offered, lowering his chest closer to the ground in a quadruped’s bow. “It was a miracle that you were able to get here. How did you get past the Consortium’s fleet?”

The Arxur leader narrowed his eyes. “It was rather peculiar. They asked our intentions, and I told them that we would be liberating the Jaslips. They did not challenge us, but just…left. It is like you have a mysterious, powerful benefactor who wished for this to come about, though I imagine you would know more about that.”

“What? With all due respect, you must be mistaken.”

I yipped in agreement. “The Consortium military are the ones fighting to trample and suppress our freedoms. The Reskets condemn us as terrorists from the top-down. If they didn’t challenge you, it’s either because they believed they’d lose, or they had a propaganda angle in mind.”

“I cannot say how their capabilities stack up, but this was their home territory, where they should have the advantage; your planets have ample defensive capabilities, between the protective shells and orbital platforms,” Kaisal remarked. “If even in the Arxur Dominion, there were those who opposed our ways, perhaps it is so for the Reskets and the Consortium. However, I am here to offer our full support to the Jaslip cause.”

Aulan ducked his head. “We readily and gratefully accept your aid. While some comrades might have reservations, none of us would be here without your interference in Esquo’s Fighters. I would like to hear your plans for the future, if you’re willing to share. It might put Jaslip minds at ease.”

“No, we are not going to eat people. We haven’t done that for two decades, and I am exhausted with the prejudice after all we have done to reform. The Federation are the ones who haven’t reformed, and nobody lasers such unyielding focus to condemning them!”

“All I meant is that we are unfamiliar with you, and that…our movement’s feeling is that transparency breeds trust. Aliens, those who claim to be our friends, have not been kind to Jaslips.” Nice save, Aulan. He is awfully good at spinning words that people want to hear. “We were hoping that you’re willing to be open and forthright: all the things the Consortium are not. We’d like to work together on how our movement will progress.”

Kaisal relaxed. “Working together, and bringing you in our budding Carnivore Alliance, is what we want. Omnol, the Smigli homeworld, is the heart of your uprising, even if other enclaves are also acting out. The Smiglis didn’t want the Reskets to put you down, so it might be possible to win their support—if only in remaining firm, not allowing any more foreigners to act without their consent. Our top priority, in my opinion, should be to unite all of the enclaves. We must synchronize our plans.”

“Splitting us up into various enclaves was another thing the Consortium did to weaken us. I can offer full-throated support for making the Jaslip people one again. How are no others indignant with the Krev, after hiding and taking drastic measures for a nonexistent threat? They’ll let the Sivkits move back to their homeworld, but not us?!”

Cherise gasped in horror. “What? The…we’re just giving the Sivkits back Tellus? I thought we wanted to stay…”

Aulan’s eyes gleamed. “You haven’t heard? It’s circulating on the KC news that humanity and the Sivkits reached an agreement, under the UN’s wise supervision. The Tellish are staying in your city; it seems humans will have an enclave of your own. There’s only one way being a minority species on someone else’s planet ends, and you can look at us to see what Tinsas will become!”

“So a Federation-minded species is just going to move back en masse, and join the Consortium’s war against us, the carnivores?! Humanity is just submitting to their rule?” I yowled.

“I doubt the Sivkits will wage war against you. They committed to our Carnivore Alliance, and have been living on the world of carnivores called Bissems for months; all they wished for was help retaking Tinsas,” Kaisal remarked. “I think they could be a potential ally, since they partner with us. The Grand Herd might relate to wanting to…reclaim your homeworld and history. Their story has many commonalities to the Jaslip tale.”

I guess that’s true. The Federation conquered and relocated them, destroying their homeworld in the process. The Sivkits were subdued and made a laughingstock.

“If they’re on our side, we welcome their help; herbivores, omnivores, and carnivores should stand united against tyranny.” Aulan cast a glance at Cherise, flicking an ear in acknowledgment. “We welcome all kindred spirits.”

Hysran snickered, leaning close to whisper in the human’s ear; I strained to overhear. “Ooh, you’re special. He singled you out. When’s the wedding?”

Cherise gave the comedian Arxur a look that could kill. “You have no idea what I’ve done for this movement. It deserves acknowledgment, even if some Jaslips don’t give it.”

“Some Jaslips did those shitty things right alongside you, believing we were in this together—” I began.

“If there is going to be chatter during our conversation, I will not permit these hearings to be open to all,” Kaisal hissed, while Zefriss gave Hysran a smug look. “Aulan, is there anything else you would like to ask me?”

The Jaslip Independence Brigade leader cleared his throat. “Yes. Speaking of potential allies, we thought the United Nations might support our mission. The humans did take steps to restore our species after they saw Esquo, so perhaps they would…do more. Could you relay a message to them requesting aid?”

The Arxur leader laughed. “Support from the United Nations? You can count on them not taking any actions that might offend their precious herbivore allies. They never side with us; they didn’t, even when the Federation attacked us and unraveled their defense of Aafa. I wouldn’t count on them lifting a pretty little finger, except for the one it seems you have with you.”

“Clearly, I stand out here,” Cherise grumbled.

“It doesn’t hurt to ask, Chief Hunter Kaisal. They must at least empathize with our plight, and we perhaps do not carry the…political baggage I imagine other carnivores might,” Aulan offered.

Kaisal snorted. “We’re going to be at war with the Krev Consortium, and the United Nations wants nothing more than to lock in a peace treaty with them—another precious accord to maintain at all costs, forsaking all other commitments. Nonetheless, I will relay that the Jaslips wish for aid. Perhaps the Tellish remembering what it is to be oppressed by the Krev will get them off their asses; they do care when a problem directly affects humans.”

“This affects everyone’s safety and liberty in this region. Use those words, Chief Hunter, if you wish to convey the spirit of our request. And thank you for helping; we are unable to get to Tellus ourselves, and using their communication channels would give up our location.”

“Of course. I’m sure I’ll return with a flowery message about why those leaf-lickers can’t be bothered to help, given that they won’t address the abuses within their own Sapient Coalition. I will let you know. In the meantime, I will also craft plans to assert control on each planet’s enclave. We should likely start the Ulchid and Trombil enclaves, since the natives will offer the least resistance there.”

“Our brethren will appreciate your heroic aid. I’ll let you get to it, and will be happy to coordinate the plans. We’ll discuss our next moves internally as well. May the Carnivore Alliance defeat any who oppose us!”

There were some cheers of agreement from the gathered Jaslips, though many were uncertain about this hasty partnership: even if it was our lifeline. I glowered at Hysran, and kept my muzzle clamped shut; I wasn’t going to cheer for cannibals calling the shots of our war effort. I could still hear Kaisal’s lack of confidence in the United Nations as well, which led me to think the humans might be the same as all of the indifferent Consortium species. The support of Orion’s predominant power—the vanquishers of the Federation—would be a game-changer for our movement. They were the ones who could truly contest the KC. 

I hoped for the sake of our long-term success that the Chief Hunter was wrong about the Terrans’ intentions.

