The Nature of Predators 2-83
OC
First | Prev | Next

Krev Exchange [NEW] | Patreon | Subreddit | Discord | Paperback | NOP2 Species Lore

---

Memory Transcription Subject: Elias Meier, Former UN Secretary-General

Date [standardized human time]: February 11, 2161

The shock at the emergence of the hidden ships, which made the heavy-handed force we’d sent look insignificant, was evident in the faces of the SC leadership. The other humans within our section were buzzing with chatter, trying to determine what to do; losing tens of thousands of ships wasn’t something we wanted to commit to, and there was no getting our forces out. Their proximity to Grenelka, the very thing we targeted, was their downfall. As I grasped for an answer on who these mystery ships might belong to (certainly not the Yulpa), I landed on only one possibility: the ghost Farsul we’d been looking for all along. That meant…no wonder we couldn’t track them down. They were hiding within the Remnants’ space and spurring on their organization, taking up the mantle of the defeated Kolshians and Farsul!

Were the Yulpa and their allies conspiring this whole time, as far back as when their representatives heard my speech to the Shield? The Shield: they’re closer to the Remnants than to the SC. Did they know?

Secretary-General Osmani was calm at the lectern, though the creases between his eyes told me he’d reached the same conclusion. “It would seem that, much like the Krev Consortium, the extremist Farsul took it upon themselves to build many ships while in hiding. Perhaps they are present on…many Remnant worlds. We must factor this in to our plans, and also observe them to determine whether they have a centralized location.”

The combined might of Arxur and Terran armies began utilizing our munitions in the scramble, but I surveyed our private diagrams to determine what Hamza had meant about observing the Farsul; some of our camera feeds appeared to come from ships with cloaking capabilities, much like the hidden stations that Jones had deployed since our earliest days establishing protections for the Sol system. As magnificent as our initial push into Grenelka’s orbit had been, I knew this fight was lost for us. That surprise would only work on humanity once, so we needed to pivot into getting all of the information that we could. 

This novel threat might work to mobilize the entire SC into total war against the Remnants, for fear that they too would wind up underfoot again, if the ghost Farsul got into control. It was the Shield’s allegiance that was in doubt, after most of them weren’t on speaking terms with us after the ark colonists’ involvement in the attacks was revealed. The miracle was that they remained neutral, though I would’ve guessed they swayed toward the Fed remnants—without wanting to get into a war with humanity. I had to find Ambassadors Korajan and Yali now, since the Leshee and the Duerten were the two who’d stuck with us. While I hated to consider the prospect, I had to consider that they might be a security risk, here to spy on us.

“What chafes at me is that Jones might know what they’re up to,” I muttered to myself, seeing the spymaster having a conversation by herself on a headset. “Maybe before we fire her today, we have to grovel for what she’s dug up…through her unscrupulous means.”

The Yulpa’s reinforcements were overwhelming our ships, with ten of theirs boxing one of ours in; these craft were more advanced than the manned vessels that had formed their prior engagements. Why had they not shown their hand, bringing the ghost Farsul into the fold, to storm Liberty’s Bastion, when they might’ve eliminated our entire colony had it not been reserved for defense? Was there something of particular importance in Grenelka, that would make the radicals unwilling to perform their callous sacrifices of lives? The old Federation would’ve traded Grenelka for a predator colony in a heartbeat. If Korajan had known about this, while claiming to be our friend…

“Our plan is to cripple Grenelka,” the Secretary-General told the audience, who were horrified to see the pulverization of a fleet that’d been so dominant moments earlier. “We’ll stay kicking as long as possible, and take as many of them with us as possible. We need to prepare a response immediately; we should contact the KC and inform them that we located the Farsul, so they no longer have to comb their space.”

“They must have a base of operations,” Bissem General Naltor suggested. “From what Ambassador Loxsel said, I would think it’s in the Consortium’s space, past Sivkit borders. It would be prudent to follow the signals or trails of any ghost ships; it might lead us straight  to the head.”

“I agree, but the demonstrable threat is at Grenelka; these people declared war on us, for the purpose of our total elimination. It’s evident they’ve been preparing this for a long time, right beneath our noses. The battle is lost, so I find it unproductive to watch the final ships of Terra and her allies succumb. We plan to hit them back, now that they’ve shown themselves. Every SC member must send enough ships that the outcome is a certainty!”

“You have our support,” Onso remarked, vouching for the Yotul’s presence without hesitation.

Mazic President Quipa flared her trunk. “They came into our space first to attack Liberty’s Bastion. I’m not happy with what the ark ships did, and you don’t place enough blame on yourself, but the Presidium won’t let the colony we gave you be attacked. You have any aid we can offer.”

Governor Laisa flicked an ear with amusement. “Is it a question that we’ll send our ships? We are with humanity, always.”

“This is the new extermination fleet. We’ll be on the right side, this time,” Krakotl ambassador Kelsel said.

“Us also,” Harchen representative Nahley agreed.

My Sulean friend, the bright, bubbly Syba, took the speaking role for the Sulean-Iftali joint delegation. “The Iftali wouldn’t survive, and we stand with foremost our sister species, but also humanity! We’ll help convince as many people to help as possible; you will win again. I know it—together, we’re stronger than ever!”

“On behalf of the other sister species, the Verin and the Onkari will be here with whatever you need,” Verin Ambassador Hrone offered. 

“To any delegates worried to commit to this skirmish, we cannot afford to sit back,” Tassi spoke from the Bissem balcony. “You know what happened to Ivrana; Bissems wouldn’t exist without the dumb luck of them flying close enough to be shot down, before they could report back. They’ll come in the night for the purpose of killing; that is predation. Please, help us.”

Excellent words from my Bissem friend, who I’m glad has returned, rather than giving up on endearing her species to the Sapient Coalition. It doesn’t seem she needs my help today. No pledge from the Duerten or the Leshee. 

The Paltan delegate’s large eyes glimmered. “We’re rather far away, but we’re coming if called upon. Our military bases have been pointed toward the KC, and perhaps are better allocated that way: but if you summon us, we’re ready.”

“We’re ready to act right now. I’ve already ordered reinforcements to Grenelka, before they have the chance to slip away,” said the Gojid Prime Minister.

I stood from the table in a hurry, not waiting for Osmani’s blessing to confront the Duerten ambassador. The Shield couldn’t be neutral at a time like this; they mustn’t hide away in their fortress of a governance ship. I’d thought they hated how the Federation distorted them, but they buddied up to their successor—while unwilling to forgive us for the acts of one group of humans, perhaps they hadn’t been as keen on killing every last soul on Aafa for Kalqua. No, it didn’t make sense, when they were so adamant on their hatred for Kolshians. Korajan had cracked when he told the story of his bunker stay. He didn’t hope for my success or mean anything, if he concealed something of this magnitude.

I risked a last glance over my shoulder, seeing the last gasps of resistance on the Sapient Coalition’s screen; there were numbers where not even the greatest military technology known to man could defeat the odds. This ambush force was larger than the record-setting drone armadas that Krev Consortium had sent toward us. It should concern anyone who liked free thought, a right that’d been denied to the Duerten more than anyone—for the crime of being vocal. The last time I’d seen Korajan, he’d persuaded his government not to retaliate for the planned strike on Kalqua: perhaps helped when we confirmed they weren’t under threat. I wondered if the gray avian was on our side though, after our relations were on rocky ground. I had know whether it was worth asking the Shield for assistance.

I chased after the gray tail feathers I saw exiting the auditorium, and shouted the ambassador’s name. His corn-colored beak turned to face me, a deep concern in his eyes.

Korajan drew a shaky breath. “I imagine you’re looking for me to see what we’ll do. Neither Ambassador Yali or myself have the authority to declare war on the Remnants. I know they attacked humanity, but my government remembers that you didn’t respond to the outward declaration of hostility—the cruel intent—by the Tellish. We helped you against the Consortium once, and we’d been hesitant to do it again.”

“Then the Shield wants the Federation to take back over and play thought police,” I responded in a flat voice. “That’s what will happen if they win, after all.”

“There’s no reason you cannot win this on your own. Of your 82 members, it seemed that none were holding back in sending forces. We do not need to be involved.” 

“We have no idea how many ships the Federation have. If you want to talk about a declaration of hostility, they were the faction that went through—endorsed and sanctioned—the unforgivable attack on Kalqua; they’d do it again, should you challenge or contest them past the point where we could protect you. We were never going to let any vessels attack Kalqua, but they don’t feel the same. If the Shield wants a future, side with us. Please, Korajan: I want to call you a friend.”

“I do call you a friend, Elias, but I cannot just agree with you and send the ships. I already was going to advise the Duerten Forum and the Shield to side with you, for the simple reason that these fiends would kill any former omnivores; it’s the only way to be sure. I know Kalqua isn’t safe with them out there, beyond the extent that the ark colonists give us those feelings.”

“Thank you,” I said. “Do you want me to speak with them? I’ve been there before, and—”

“No. While my government loathes the Farsul, I cannot guarantee that the Shield overall will…not side against you. Many of them are Federation-leaning, as you saw yourself. If the Duerten intend to help, I will be in touch and give you a read on the situation. I must make this call myself. I know your opinion of me may have been lessened by my past anger, but I hope you still trust me to do what is best for your people and mine.”

“I do. It’s Yali that I’d like to know where she’s at.” 

“Elias, I’m two steps ahead of you. I persuaded Yali to help, on the grounds that you are protecting this side of the galaxy from the greatest threat of our time. She seems to believe the Leshee will, at the least, throw in their lot with you; amphibious species would never get a fair shot with the Federation. I hope it’s some assurance to know that.”

I ducked my head in appreciation, smiling. “It is. Thank you, Korajan. I’ve appreciated your guidance and your reasonability very much, and…I’m sorry I was worried. I shouldn’t have been.”

The avian cackled. “Precisely, you should not have been. Humanity taught me how to continue on in life, and I have a soft spot for you. I’d like to see a day where no species will fear you, rather appreciating your kindness and generosity as I do. I hope for a day where the Shield can enjoy the beauty—the relentlessness—of your devotion and friendship.”

“That has always been our deepest wish. It’s what brought us to the stars, and what encourages us not to give up on them. Good luck with your call…my friend.”

“My people are rather stubborn; you have seen nothing with me. I’ll need all of that luck.”

I watched as the Duerten walked away, relieved to see that the Sapient Coalition and our closest Shield allies were taking the threat of the ghost exterminators seriously. This took the idea of dealing with the shady elements of the Consortium off the table entirely; I hoped that nothing that was going on in their space would affect their commitment to deal with the Federation Remnants. Whatever our personal squabbles, the Orion Arm needed to maintain a united front in dealing with our hidden adversary. Humanity was going to put the whole of our strength into eliminating the new conspiracy, for the sake of our long-term future prospects. 

---

